
                               1 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            November 29, 2015 Sunday

                       SHOW: FOX NEWS SUNDAY 9:00 AM EST

Deadly Shooting at Planned Parenthood Center; Interview with Carly Fiorina;
Americans Face Heightened Travel Security; Interview with Sen. Richard Burr;
Panel Talks GOP Politics; Ben Carson Visits Jordan; Donald Trump Fends Off
Criticism; Christmas Comes to the White House

BYLINE: Chris Wallace, Will Carr, Kevin Corke, Brit Hume, James Rosen

GUESTS: Carly Fiorina, Richard Burr, Jane Harman, Robert Costa, Sandy Lerner

SECTION: NEWS; International

LENGTH: 8156  words


CHRIS WALLACE, FOX NEWS HOST: I'm Chris Wallace.

A deadly siege at a Planned Parenthood center. Now, police search for a motive.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

(SIREN WAILING)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He was aiming at me and he started shooting. And I was
looking at his face.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, there was a lot of gunfire.

WALLACE: Three dead, including a police officer. Was it related to allegations
about the sale of fetal body parts for research?

We'll talk with GOP presidential candidate Carly Fiorina, a staunch opponent of
Planned Parenthood's abortion practices.

Then, Americans face heightened security at home, on the busiest travel holiday
of the year.

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I want the American people to know
that we are taking every possible step to keep our homeland safe.

WALLACE: In the midst of a worldwide travel alert due to terror attacks, we'll
set down with Richard Burr, chair of the Senate Intelligence Committee. It's a
FOX NEWS SUNDAY exclusive.

Plus, Ben Carson looks to beef up his foreign policy credentials with a trip to
Syrian refugee camps.

And Donald Trump fends off criticism he mocked a reporter's disability.

We'll ask the Sunday panel about a GOP course correction.

All, right now, on FOX NEWS SUNDAY.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

WALLACE: And hello again from FOX News in Washington.

A deadly shooting at a Planned Parenthood Center in Colorado Springs is renewing
debates over abortion and gun control. But while a suspect is in custody, it's
still unclear what motivated him to open fire.

We'll talk with presidential Carly Fiorina in a moment, but first, FOX News
correspondent Will Carr is live outside the clinic -- Will.

WILL CARR, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Chris, while Robert Lewis Dear is set to
appear in court on Monday, the question is why did he kill three people and
injure nine others?

This weekend, authorities have been searching his trailer in nearby Park County,
Colorado, looking for clues. Keep in mind that Dear surrendered on Friday and
now there are multiple reports that he's been rambling in interviews with
investigators, at one point saying, quote, "no more baby parts", which appears
to refer to recent videos allegedly showing Planned Parenthood officials
discussing the sale of fetal body parts.

Investigators digging into Dear's past after they say he stormed the Planned
Parenthood behind me with an assault weapon and got into a shootout with police
on Friday. He previously lived in a cabin in North Carolina with no, and had
past arrests for domestic violence and animal cruelty. Those who knew him best
say he kept to himself and he never spoke about religion or abortion.

At the same time, one of his victims, Officer Garrett Swasey is being remembered
as a father, an athlete, and an athlete and man of God.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If I can put it in a nutshell, I think he was -- he was a
person who served his community with integrity, served with his whole life. I
think he meant hope to this community.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CARR: President Obama issuing a statement in part which says, enough is enough
in regards to gun violence, and at the same time, Attorney General Lynch calling
this a crime against women who use Planned Parenthood for health care services
-- Chris.

WALLACE: Will Carr, reporting from Colorado Springs -- Will, thanks for that.

Joining me now is Republican presidential candidate Carly Fiorina, who has taken
a hard line against Planned Parenthood's abortion practices.

Ms. Fiorina, welcome back to FOX NEWS SUNDAY.

CARLY FIORINA (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Thanks for having me, Chris. Happy
Thanksgiving.

WALLACE: Thank you. Same to you.

Your reaction to the shootings at that clinic in Colorado Springs?

FIORINA: Well, this is a tragedy. It's obviously a tragedy. Nothing justifies
this. And presumably this man who appears deranged, if nothing else, will be
tried for murder, as he should be. But it's a tragedy, especially on a holiday
weekend.

WALLACE: You have been one of the toughest critics, as we've said, of Planned
Parenthood's alleged harvesting of body parts, selling for fetal research. Some
of the pro-choice advocates are saying language like yours, not single you out,
but language like yours, has incited violence. I'd like to get your reaction to
that. But also, what would you say to protesters, people outside these clinics,
about the limits of their opposition?

FIORINA: Well, first, it is not alleged. Planned Parenthood acknowledged several
weeks ago they would no longer take compensation for body parts, which sounds
like an admission that they were doing so.

Secondly, this is so typical of the left to immediately begin demonizing the
messenger, because they don't agree with the message. The vast majority of
Americans agree, what Planned Parenthood is doing is wrong. That's why the vast
majority of Americans are prepared not only to defund Planned Parenthood, but
also to stop abortion for any reason at all after five months.

So, what I would say to anyone who tries to link this terrible tragedy to anyone
who opposes abortion or opposes the sale of body parts is, this is typical
left-wing tactics.

WALLACE: And what would you say to the protesters, the people that are outside
the clinics and oppose it?

FIORINA: Well, any protesters should always be peaceful, whether it's Black
Lives Matter or pro-life protesters, protesters should always be peaceful and
respectful.

WALLACE: Let me turn subjects on you. President Obama is on his way to Paris
today for a climate change summit. And this week, he linked that to the war on
terror. Take a look.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

OBAMA: What a powerful rebuke to the terrorists it will be when the world stands
at one and shows that we will not be deterred from building a better future for
our children.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WALLACE: Your reaction to the summit and to the contention by some in the Obama
administration that climate change is, if not the biggest, certainly the most
immediate threat to our national security?

FIORINA: Well, that's delusional. It is delusional for President Obama and
Hillary Clinton and anyone else to say that climate change is our near- term
most severe security threat. It is ISIS, period, followed closely by Iran and
perhaps Russia.

President Obama continues to think that somehow our behavior causes terrorism,
so he says the climate change summit is a powerful rebuke. No, it's not. The
terrorists don't care that we're gathering in Paris other than it provides a
target, just as he said, well, Republicans are giving terrorists a recruiting
tool when we don't think Syrian refugees should be allowed to enter this country
if we cannot properly vet them.

President Obama is delusional about this. He's delusional about the threat,
which apparently is why he won't do anything about it.

WALLACE: Do you think it's worthwhile for him to go to Paris, to go to this
international summit and try to work out emissions limits?

FIORINA: Well, look, if you read the fine print of the science, what the
scientists tell us, all those scientist who say climate change is real and
manmade, they also tell us that a single nation acting alone can make no
difference at all. That it would take a concerted global effort over 30 years,
costing trillions of dollars. I think the likelihood of that is near zero. So,
no, I don't think it's particularly productive.

I think it would be far more productive if President Obama instead was there
leading an international coalition to stop human trafficking or an international
coalition for humanitarian relief for the refugees or an international coalition
to defeat ISIS. All those would be more useful than time in Paris spent talking
about climate change.

WALLACE: You know, let's turn to the Republican presidential race. You have
gotten a big lift in the polls, particularly after the first two Republican
debates, but just looking at the numbers, you have fallen back since then.

Let's put up a couple of the polls. In the Real Clear Politics average of recent
polls in Iowa, you're not sixth with 3.7 percent. That's down from where you
were running third with 10.3 percent in early October. It's the same in New
Hampshire. You're now tied for ninth with 4.3 percent, down from early October
when you were running second with 14.3 percent.

You are a numbers person. Why do you keep sliding back?

FIORINA: Well, I'm a numbers person, but national polls and some of these polls
are notoriously unpredictive. They've never predicted a winner at this stage in
the race.

But here's what I would say. When I launched my campaign on May 4th, no one
would have said I would be in the top ten. No one would have said I would be on
the main stage.

In fact, every pundit on this channel and every other channel virtually wrote me
off. I've had a trajectory unlike any other candidate. I was the least
well-known candidates on May 4th. I remain at the bottom of well- known
candidates.

In other words, a lot of Republican voters still don't know who I am. I'm very
happy with where I am.

WALLACE: But let me --

FIORINA: And now, people are going to start paying attention. Now, people are
paying attention.

WALLACE: But let me check you on that, because I know you talk about name
recognition, so I looked into that this weekend. According to a national
Quinnipiac poll, this month, more Republicans now know who you are than know who
Marco Rubio is, or Ted Cruz, and yet, they're running ahead of you in the polls.
So, it isn't just name recognition.

FIORINA: No, I'm not saying it's just name recognition, but it is to say, that
having never run for a political office before and not being a household name
and in people's living rooms like Donald Trump and Ben Carson for many years,
people are getting to know me. And now, by the way, people are starting to pay
attention.

And so, later this week, I'm going to be rolling out my blueprint -- the
blueprint for what we need to do to take our country back. Our government is
crushing the potential of our nation, and to take our country back will require
a different kind of leadership in the White House. It is why I'm running.

It will require citizenship, and we need to do some very specific things -- from
radically simplifying the tax code, to go into zero-based budgeting, to
repealing Obamacare, to restoring the character of our nation, to enforcing a
pro-American immigration system, to defeating ISIS and getting back in the
leadership business around the world.

WALLACE: There's a lot I want to pick up on that. Specifically, first, you
mentioned Donald Trump. One of your biggest moments so far in this campaign was
when you shot back at Mr. Trump after he commented on your appearance.

This week he is under fire again, this time for mocking the physical disability
of a reporter. Take a look.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: You've got to see this guy, I don't
know what I said, I don't remember. He's like, I don't remember. Maybe that's
what I said. This is 14 years ago. Still, they didn't do a retraction!

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WALLACE: Are you prepared to call Trump out on that?

FIORINA: Well, yes, this is the pattern, isn't it? The pattern is he says
something insulting, offensive, outrageous, the media pays attention, and he
claims we all misunderstood him, the media pays attention again.

This is the pattern perhaps of an entertainer. It's certainly not a pattern of a
leader.

Apparently, Donald Trump only feels big when he's trying to make everyone else
look small. Of course, in the end, he looks the smallest of all.

WALLACE: You are talking about the fact you are going to come out with specifics
on a variety of issues. I want to talk about the tax code, because you have
taken some heat, for at least so far. I don't know what you're going to do this
week.

Not being specific enough, according to some people, on the tax code. You've
said that you want to reduce 73,000-page tax code to three pages. You say that
you're going to close every loophole and lower every tax rate.

But again, some people say you haven't been specific enough, so I'd like to do a
lightning round with you -- quick questions, quick answers, ask you some
specific questions, hopefully get some specific answers.

Would you end -- do you plan to end the home mortgage deduction?

FIORINA: Probably, yes, but by the way, there's been a plan for a three- page
tax code out for 20 years. This isn't news. Hoover Institute, a fine
conservative think tank of which I have served as a member of the board of
trustees, they've had a three-page tax code out for 20 years.

I think fundamentally what we ought to do is have the government to take away
less money so that it has to give less money back. A 73,000-page tax code is so
complicated. This is how the government maintains power. It's giving all these
credits and deductions back, because it takes too much away. Of course, it's
true, if you're late, you have to pay interest, but if the government is late,
they never pay interest.

WALLACE: Do you -- would you eliminate the deduction for charitable donations?

FIORINA: Probably. Look, if we added two more back in, let's say those are the
two most popular deductions, the charitable tax donations and home mortgage tax
deduction, good. Let's add two more back in.

The fundamental design philosophy, however, is lower every rate, close every
loophole, because government takes too --

WALLACE: But you would end both of those deductions.

FIORINA: I said probably, I said even if we put both back in, can you imagine
how much simpler that would be. This is what the government does. It takes away
too much money and then with all those deductions and loopholes, it exerts
power.

I could live with two deductions, Chris. I could live with the charitable and
the home mortgage deduction. But this is what always happens. Everybody says,
oh, you can't take those away for 73,000 pages never gets reformed, never gets
reform. The fundamental blueprint -- you have to have a blueprint to have
fundamental reform.

You know why this has never happened? Because everybody's ox is going to get
gored. If you go from 73,000 pages down to three pages, everybody's ox gets
gored -- every politician, every lobbyist, every accountant, every lawyer. The
only people who benefit are the small, the powerless, the new business.

The tax code, the complexity of government favors the big, the powerful, the
wealthy, the well-connected. It's called crony capitalism. Republicans have
engaged in it as well as Democrats.

If you level the playing field by simplifying, then you help the small all
powerless and the middle class.

WALLACE: Finally, and we're running out of time here -- President Obama got a
fair amount of criticism this week -- or rather, attention this weeks, not
criticism, for pardoning a turkey. It turns out you did the same thing. Take a
look.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

FIORINA: We are pardoning the turkey so that you go on to find yourself a nice
Tom and create some turkeys that maybe will get eaten next year.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WALLACE: I love -- that was Jenny, right?

FIORINA: That was Jenny, that was jenny.

WALLACE: So, that is an Obama policy that you would continue as president?

FIORINA: I think it's a presidential tradition. In fairness to Obama, I think
many presidents have pardoned turkey.

WALLACE: But under President Fiorina, there will be turkey pardoning?

FIORINA: Yes, I will, Toms and Jennies.

WALLACE: OK. Ms. Fiorina, thank you. Thanks for sharing part of your holiday
with us.

FIORINA: Thank you.

WALLACE: Up next, world leaders gather at a climb changes summit even as they
deal with the more immediate issue of terrorism.

We'll have a live report from Paris and discuss the threat to the U.S. homeland
with the chair of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Richard Burr, when we come
right back.

WALLACE: Two weeks after a devastating terror attack in Paris, 150 world
leaders, including President Obama, are now gathering in the French capital.
Their goal: to craft a landmark deal to fight global warming.

This comes amid a worldwide travel alerts for American citizens, although the
president says there's no specific threat at home this holiday weekend.

FOX News correspondent Kevin Corke is in Paris ahead of tomorrow's summit - -
Kevin.

KEVIN CORKE, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Chris, good day to you.

As you probably remember, back during the president's recent tour of Asia, it
was an economic tour, but clearly, global security and terrorism threatens to
overshadow that and again threatens to overshadow this climate gathering in
Paris.

And given the events of the 13th of November -- to say noting of the fact that
we're going to be joined by dozens of world leaders here in Paris for this
particular summit, the security footprint, the posture is immense. And that
should not surprise anyone.

Climate policy is clearly a legacy item the White House wants to solidify for a
president who has said previously that it poses an immediate risk to national
security. So, we should expect some sort of an accord for the countries gathered
here, Chris, before the end of the conference, something actionable, not
necessarily a treaty.

Meanwhile, you should also expect the president to make use of the time in Paris
to meet with Presidents Hollande of France and Putin of Russia, maybe even
Erdogan of Turkey with ISIS and the Syrian conflict high on the agenda. Of
course, that's taken on a whole new level of importance in the wake of the
Russian fighter aircraft being shut down by the Turks over complaints that the
Russian aircraft violated Turkey's airspace.

And you also probably remember, the folks at home certainly should remember --
that goes back to the talks about de-escalation. We heard a lot about that,
Chris, in the early fall, and so, expect the White House and the president's
advisers in particular to try to tamp down the situation between Turkey and
Russia, and hopefully take what is clearly a volatile situation back down to a
manageable level -- Chris.

WALLACE: Kevin Corke, reporting live from Paris -- Kevin, thank you for that.

Joining us from North Carolina, Richard Burr, chair of the Senate Intelligence
Committee.

Chairman, as the busiest travel weekend of the year wraps up, is there any
specific, credible threats against Americans to the best of your knowledge,
either in this country or around the world?

SEN. RICHARD BURR (R-NC), CHAIR, INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE: Well, Chris, credible,
specific -- no. But for the past 12 months, there have been more threads of
threats both here at home and around the world that we've seen since 9/11. So,
the risk remains high, but clearly, in the United States, the FBI has wrapped up
over 67 individuals that were incarcerated this year and are either prosecuted
or in the process of being prosecuted. And that will continue.

WALLACE: How big an international footprint does ISIS have now? How serious a
threat in the U.S. and in other countries outside the Middle East?

BURR: Well, Chris, it's proven that ISIS is in 30 different countries, they
control eight provinces of countries. They've got a reach that goes throughout
Europe and North America.

So, to talk about containment is really a joke. The reality is that ISIS may be
geographically contained in Syria and Iraq, but their efforts around the world
to project terrorism and to commit terrorism is as robust today as it's ever
been.

WALLACE: Well, with that as a backdrop, Senator, at a news conference this week
with French President Hollande, President Obama did not announce -- despite the
attack in Mali, despite the attack in Paris -- did not announces in new steps in
his war against ISIS, which raises the question: what's your assessment of the
president as current strategy, and how much do you think it can accomplish?

BURR: Well, we have no strategy. I don't think you can find anybody in the world
outside of the administration that could attempt to state what America's
strategy is.

In the past three weeks, Chris, we've seen over 500 individuals killed around
the world at the hands of ISIS. I don't think there's any question of that. And
in Syria alone, we've had over 240,000 Syrians killed. That's both by Assad and
ISIS, and over 4 million refugees in flight.

It's time for an international coalition to come in and arm groups like the
Kurds to create a safe haven, a no-fly zone, where we can stop the refugee
flight out of Syria. But only with American leadership will that happen.

And I hope that while the administration is in Paris, maybe they'll talk with
President Hollande, who I think is committed to eliminate ISIS. We've got to
stop talking about containment and we've got to talk about elimination of the
terrorist threat.

WALLACE: Meanwhile, Hollande after meeting with President Obama in Washington
then flew to Moscow to meet with Russian President Putin.

And here is what President Obama said about Putin:

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Russia right now is a coalition of
two, Iran and Russia, supporting Assad.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WALLACE: What's your best intelligence, Chairman Burr? Can we count on Putin at
all? There's talk about a grand coalition. At first, it seemed when Putin met
with Hollande, there was a possibility he would join the coalition, then the
Russians seemed to walk away from that.

What's your sense of Putin's intentions?

BURR: Well, I think Putin's intention is to prop up Assad. That's always been
his stated goal. I don't think that we can not remember that Putin invaded
Crimea, currently prosecutes a border war in the Ukraine. I'm not sure that
Putin can be trusted.

But, Chris, let me make this fact: ISIS has to be eliminated. I'm ready to put
together whatever coalition is willing to attack ISIS and eliminate this
terrorist threat. That means Gulf state partners, it means European partners, it
may mean Russia.

But Russia sure complicates the options we have in Syria, with the amount of
aircraft, with the amount of arms that they have there. If we can focus those on
ISIS versus the moderate opposition forces that are trying to defeat Assad, we
could make a real impact, but that's going to take a great deal of diplomacy
that we have yet to see.

WALLACE: There's been some interesting developments on intelligence issues,
really, in the last week. I want to talk to you about those, sir.

Today at midnight, the NSA's bulk data collection of America's phone records,
that program expired as of last night, and now the NSA is going to need a court
order from a judge to collect records on any American. And again, we're not
talking about the content of the phone call, simply my phone number called your
phone number, and we spoke, or people on those two lines spoke for X number of
minutes.

What impact do you think that's going to have on your counter-terrorism effort?

BURR: Chris, I don't think it's too troubling you would need a court order. I
think what's troubling is that you'll have to go to multiple telecom companies,
and at their pace search their records, which means it could take weeks. What we
saw in Paris once we got a cell phone was that we used that cell phone number to
look at cell phones it had talked to -- and not only Paris investigators but
Belgian investigators were able to expand the search net in a way that stopped a
massive terrorist attack, an additional one in Paris, potentially has led to the
apprehension of at least a dozen, if not more, ISIS operatives throughout
Belgium, Germany, and parts of Europe.

I'm not sure that we know the full extent of what we've learned to this point,
but any time you can take electronics and use those selectors, it's beneficial
to the world's intelligence community. And the United States made a real mistake
when they eliminated this program where we could search foreign known terrorist'
cell phones.

But Congress took that away from the NSA, and, unfortunately,. it's not going to
be a timely tool to use in the future.

WALLACE: Well, let me pick up on that. You have signed on to legislation that's
now in the Senate that would revive the program, which is I say ran out as of
midnight, but the Senate just voted to end the program in June. So, what are the
chances that they're going to reverse that just a few months later?

BURR: Well, Chris, it's amazing what happens when people are reminded what
terrorists can do. It hadn't happened here at home, but I think the American
response to the Paris attack was as significant outside of New York and New
Jersey as 9/11 was. The American people recognize that the indiscriminate,
brutal acts that ISIS carried out could happen in any community across this
country and throughout the world.

And I think as Americans, we believe we should do everything we can to eliminate
that. Knowing who the terrorists are and where operatives may be in the United
States or something, Americans expect us to know, they expect us to investigate.

I want to make sure that the tools that law enforcement have are as robust as
they possibly can be, and metadata is a big contributor to that.

WALLACE: I want to get into one last issue with you. There are several
allegations into allegations that officers at the U.S. Central Command, the
military operation that oversees the Middle East, were altering and doctoring
the intelligence from their analysts to downplay the threat from ISIS. I know
you've talked to whistle-blowers. I know there are several investigations going
on in your committee, also the Pentagon inspector general.

How substantial is the evidence that intelligence was doctored, sir?

BURR: Well, it's very concerning. The whistle-blower that I've talked to was
very compelling. And, clearly, some of the information that's come out in the
last seven days supported what that whistle-blower claimed.

Any time we've got intelligence that may have been altered in some way, shape or
form to fit a narrative that might be the narrative set by the White House is
concerning to me. To think that it could come from one of our combatant
commands, in this case CentCom, is extremely troubling, because that changes
really the risk that our combat forces might perceive, that they're going to be
faced with in that combat theater.

WALLACE: Let me, let me pick --

BURR: So, I want to make sure that our -- yes, sure.

WALLACE: Let me just pick up on that, if I can, sir, because this week, when
faced with those allegations, President Obama denied that he had anything to do
with that. Take a look at what the president had to say.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

OBAMA: One of the things I insisted on the day I walked into the Oval Office was
that I don't want intelligence shaded by politics. I don't want it shaded by the
desire to tell a feel-good story.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WALLACE: Briefly, Senator, do you have any evidence the White House was involved
in cooking the intelligence?

BURR: Chris, I don't, but we're going to look at the timeline very carefully to
figure out whether the narrative was there before the intelligence backed it up.
We've got a case in Benghazi that's currently under investigation, where we know
that a narrative went out that was factually incorrect. When all the facts on
the ground said it was terrorism, we were out talking about a video.

So, narrative has been something that this White House has run with before. It
concerns me now because Americans' lives are at stakes. Our soldiers, our
sailors, our airmen, our marines' lives are at stake when we do this.

WALLACE: Chairman Burr, thank you. Thanks for you your time on this holiday
weekend, sir.

BURR: Thank you, Chris.

WALLACE: Up next, our Sunday Group joins the conversation on the increased
terror threat, just as the government's bulk data collection of Americans phone
records runs out.

Plus, what would you like to ask the panel about keeping the homeland safe? Just
go to Facebook or Twitter at FOX NEWS SUNDAY. And we may use your question on
the air.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. MARCO RUBIO (R-FL), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: But if God forbid tomorrow
morning there's a terrorist attack in the United States, the first question
everyone is going to have is why didn't we know about it? And why didn't we stop
it?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WALLACE: Senator Marco Rubio taking a swipe at the expiration today of the
government's bulk data collection program as the U.S. and the world face an
increase terror threat. And it's time now for our Sunday group Fox News senior
political analyst Brit Hume, former Democratic congresswoman Jane Harman,
director of the Woodrow Wilson Center. Fox News chief Washington correspondent
James Rosen, author of the new book, "Cheney One on One." And Robert Costa from
"The Washington Post." Brit, it's an interesting confluence of events, the bulk
data collection program of Americans phone records that we pointed out, ran out
at midnight last night just as the State Department issues a worldwide travel
alert for all Americans. What do you make of those two things?

BRIT HUME, FOX NEWS SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: Well, and there's more to it than
that. Because this figures into Republican presidential campaign, because Marco
Rubio and Ted Cruz are competing for some of the same voters and one of Rubio's
talking points, reflected in part by the soundbite that you showed, is that Cruz
voted to end this program. So, you have that factor added in all of this as
well.

My sense (INAUDIBLE) that we never did have a victim that came forward. It was
ever shown that there was one, of this program, and intelligence professionals
such as Mike Hayden ...

WALLACE: Former ...

HUME: CIA director who'd been on this program many times, have insisted again
and again that it was very useful and helpful. And so I think it's fair to say
that great many intelligence professionals said we're now without an effective
tool for anticipating these terror attacks.

WALLACE: Well, let me ask an intelligence professional, Congresswoman Harman.
You were the former top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee when you
were in Congress. Did you ever see evidence that the NSA abused its powers in
collecting Americans' phone records? And do you think the expiration of the
program as of midnight will hurt our counter- terrorism effort?

JANE HARMAN, FMR. U.S. CONGRESSWOMAN: Well, first of all, I supported the
program. I was briefed on it early in the Bush administration. I thought that
the legal underpinnings were weak, and in 2008, Congress made a big effort to
put the whole program under law as part of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Act. So, I voted for that. This change came about after I left Congress -- I
don't think because I left Congress, but there's been a lot of discontent after
the Edward Snowden leaks, with the so-called invasion of privacy. But the good
news is this, first of all the program was not abused, second of all, the law
that recently passed, which does change the program, doesn't eliminate it. But
third of all, we have other surveillance tools, which are lawful and which we
continue to employ and a big chunk of those expires or sunsets in 2017. By then
I would hope that there would be a coalition that would understand the point of
having robust and surveillance tools for our government given the terror threat.

WALLACE: We asked you for questions for the panel. And we got this on Facebook
from Andrea Jamison. She writes - "How can we trust the president with vetting
refugees," talking clearly about the Syrian refugees, when he doesn't do
anything about sanctuary cities and open borders? James, how do you answer
Andrea?

JAMES ROSEN, FOX NEWS CHIEF WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT: That's a good one, Andrea.
I would say that, look, the president is going to take a national security
approach to the vetting of the refugees, perhaps more than he would with the
immigration issue. And that can be debated as to whether that's the right
approach. I do want to pick up on one other point from our discussion here. On
the same day when President Obama was in Antalya, Turkey, giving his fuller set
of remarks about the Paris attacks, you'll recall he famously got irritated by
the questions from the reporters saying that's a variation on the same question.
He was then essentially telling us the strategy against ISIS is working more or
less. It's making progress. It's set back. It's going to take some time. At the
same day, on the very same day we had John Brennan, director of CIA, telling us
at the CSIS audience the two things were occurring. Number one, the terrorists
are going to school on new inscription technologies. That's the word he used,
going to school. Secondly, post Edward Snowden, collection efforts are
restricted. So, here you have the president saying, in essence, the strategy is
working, give it time. Here you have John Brennan saying the terrorists, in
essence, are getting the upper hand, because they are getting better inscription
technologies and our hands are being tied behind our backs. Those were not
consonant messages from the president and his CIA director.

WALLACE: Robert, I want to switch to an issue of domestic violence, if not
domestic terrorism, and that was a deadly attack on Friday at the Planned
Parenthood clinic in Colorado Springs, in which a gunman killed one police
officer and two civilians. It is unclear, although, he did talk about no more
baby parts, it's unclear what his motive was, but do you think this will fire up
the political debate about abortion and about gun control?

ROBERT COSTA, THE WASHINGTON POST: On gun control, I do not. Based on my
reporting, there's no political capital within the Congress, a Republican
congress, to move forward on gun control. In some swings states like
Pennsylvania, Senator Pat Toomey, who's up for re-election, he's talked around
background checks, but most of the other Republicans who are running next year
aren't pushing for it. On abortion, we've seen the House Republicans go hard
after Planned Parenthood with investigations. There still remains an
anti-abortion party. I don't see that changing, though the pitch and tone may
change in light of these attacks. We saw Senator Cruz in Iowa over the weekend
offer his condolences to the victims.

WALLACE: And what about the Democrats? Do you see them changing their position
at all on either issue?

COSTA: Especially on gun control. Democrats who are running for the Senate, for
governor, are taking their cues from the president. And he has urged Congress to
act more on gun control. We could see this become a key issue. I'm looking
especially at New Hampshire, with Kelly Ayotte, she's up for reelection next
year. She did not back -- for the Senate, and in the presidential race, Hillary
Clinton has been a staunch advocate for more gun control, but she doesn't really
have a competitive primary. I don't see it becoming central.

WALLACE: I want to talk about one other interesting development this week. That
we had major protests in Chicago over the release of a video, and also over the
charging of a white police officer with first-degree murder a year after he
allegedly shot an unarmed -- well, no, he had a knife, but no gun, young black
teenager 16 times. What was most interesting about the protest was that they
were clearly heartfelt and they clogged the Magnificent Mile, the downtown
shopping area of Chicago, as you can see. They were also peaceful.

HUME: They were peaceful, and in addition to that, they had a point, which was
why did it take a year for this video to surface? And the suspicion, of course,
is that at the time that the incident occurred and the video was made that Mayor
Rahm Emanuel was up for reelection and didn't want to have this surface with all
the potential trouble it could cause. Eventually, it seems the right thing was
done. The video is pretty graphic. It's pretty clear that he didn't need to
shoot that guy 16 times, if at all. And the guy has been charged with murder,
which seems like an appropriate charge, but the delay is a problem. The protests
were indeed peaceful, but I wonder if there would have been protests even on
this scale had the video come out at the time and the charge of murder been
lodged at the time. Remember what happened in Tennessee when something like this
occurred, and the response was immediate. Was it Tennessee or South Carolina?
I'm not - - I don't recall right at the moment, but there was a police shooting,
remember the guy who was shot dead in the park with the cop chasing after him.
He was immediately charged, and the community rallied. I'm not sure they would
have rallied as much in Chicago.

WALLACE: It is kind of astonishing, when the tape seems to incriminating, that
it would take - I think it was 13 months.

HUME: Yes.

WALLACE: ... to charge this individual officer.

HUME: Yeah, it's hard to explain that.

Panel, we have to take a break here. When we come back, the two front- runners
in the Republican presidential race trying to deal with some self- inflicted
wounds.

WALLACE: The GOP presidential candidate Dr. Ben Carson meeting with Syrian
refugees in Jordan, following weeks of questions about his foreign policy
credentials. And we are back now with the panel.

So Dr. Carson on a two-day trip to Jordan now says that those refugees should
stay in camps in Jordan, or someplace else in the Middle East, with increased
aid from the West, but should not be brought to the U.S.

Brit, does his 48 hours in the Middle East solve Ben Carson's commander in chief
issue?

HUME: I don't think it solves it, but I think it probably helps. I think it was
wise of him to go there, be seen there, as in the video you just showed, and of
course the remedy that he suggests is one that is likely to be popular among
Republican primary voters. That is don't bring them here, but help them there.
Which now he can say that he came to that conclusion by virtue of his visit
there, but it happens also to be a politically convenient position to take. So I
think it probably helps a bit, yes.

WALLACE: Congresswoman Harman, fair to say you're a long-time Democrat. If the
world stays, the world situation is ugly as it is, with the spread of ISIS, the
threat of ISIS spreading, and the civil war in Syria continuing, what impact
will that have on Hillary Clinton as a political candidate? Will her foreign
policy credentials, will her ties to Obama be a plus or a minus?

HARMAN: I think it will help anybody, and there are people who are running in
the Republican Party too, who are responsible and serious thinkers about foreign
policy. It will not help people who make outrageous comments about keep all the
Muslims out of the United States and build walls everywhere. And so I think it
will help her, but I think it could help responsible Republicans as well.

Let me just say one thing about the Carson visit. What's wrong with the million
refugees in Jordan and refugees hemorrhaging around Syria is all those countries
are now destabilized. We should understand that ISIS wants its caliphate for the
moment to be in Raqqah, Syria, but now there are rumors that it could move to
Libya, another failing state or almost failed state. And Yemen is a failed
state. And all of these places are ripe for this civil war within radical Sunni
Islam.

WALLACE: I just want to pick up on the Clinton question, because the polls
indicate by a very wide margin, people do not think this president has a handle
on ISIS, did not think he's being aggressive enough in fighting terrorism. She
was the secretary of state and the architect of much of this for the first four
years of Obama's term. You really don't think this will impact her?

HARMAN: Sure. People will try to connect her to parts of Obama's policies that
haven't succeed, but it's been public knowledge that she was for the limited
bombing in Syria, which Dave Petraeus, who also served Obama, was for, which I'm
-- personally was for. And I think that will be viewed as a major strategic
mistake of the Obama presidency.

WALLACE: Meanwhile, Republican front runner Donald Trump, as we mentioned
earlier with Carly Fiorina, created another major controversy for himself when
he seemed to mock a reporter with serious physical disabilities. Take another
look.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: He's going, I don't remember, maybe that's what I said. This is 14 years
ago. He still -- they didn't do a retraction.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WALLACE: Trump told a rally yesterday, James, that he would never make fun of
someone, and in fact that the reporter and the New York Times are exploiting
this situation and this misunderstanding. We have been thinking for a long
period of time that Trump was going to be saying something that would be over
the line. Is this the one?

ROSEN: Probably not. Donald Trump is new to the political arena in the sense of
campaigns and elections. He's not new by any means to media and messaging and
manipulation of the media. And I think that the greater threat to Donald Trump's
candidacy will not be displays of his eccentricities, such as this, or getting
into fights with John McCain or Megyn Kelly or the rest of it.

The greatest threat to Donald Trump's viability is the descent into
conventionality. And when that happens, that's when his numbers will drop.

WALLACE: There does not seem to be much danger of that in the immediate future.

ROSEN: Given the animal, yes.

WALLACE: Brit, your thoughts about Trump and this latest display?

HUME: It was pretty crude and pretty obvious what he was doing. For him to come
out and then say, oh no, I would never mock someone's disability is an almost
self-evident whopper, but I must say the striking thing about the Trump people
is, the Trump supporters, is nothing seems to matter. I think they have proved
Abraham Lincoln right when he said that you can fool some of the people all of
the time. He's doing it.

WALLACE: Perhaps the most important development this week, certainly one of the
most interesting was a new Quinnipiac poll. Take a look at it. In Iowa, which
now shows that Texas Senator Ted Cruz has doubled his support in the last month.
And as you can see is in in a statistical dead heat with Donald Trump, while Ben
Carson has fallen quite a bit in Iowa.

Robert, we've been waiting a long time to see whether or not the two front-
runners were going to lose altitude. Is this it?

COSTA: I just got back from a few days in Iowa, and I followed Senator Cruz
around. You can see the surge up close, people, the evangelical base are turning
away from Carson. They still respect him and still like him, but they see Cruz
as a credible outsider, someone who can perhaps go the distance, and Cruz is a
political athlete. I was with him at a faith forum. He stayed until nearly
midnight, shaking hands, talking to voters an hour after his speech had ended.
This is someone who's going to be having 17 or 18 stops today and tomorrow in
Iowa. He's making a play for that state, making a play for super Tuesday. If
Trump or Carson fall, for some reason, Cruz will be there to pick up some
support.

WALLACE: Let me pick up on a couple of aspects of that. First of all, to the
degree that there's any turning away from Carson, why is it?

COSTA: It's because of foreign policy. I have spoken to Carson's campaign
manager, Barry Bennett. He's with Carson in Jordan right now. They know this is
a vulnerability. They're trying to address it.

WALLACE: And as far as Cruz is concerned, we hear big aggressive ground game,
lots of money, he can play the role -- he's the senator, but as the insider's
outsider. How is all of that working? And how does it look up close?

COSTA: Cruz is not banking everything on Iowa. He's playing for March 1st, the
super Tuesday states, those Southern states, Alabama, he's looking even to
Massachusetts, places you're not really thinking about as key primary states.
Cruz has an organization there looking for the long haul.

WALLACE: What about the other candidates? Who's got -- particularly in Iowa.
That's the first one. Who's got a strong ground game there, and who of the
leading candidates doesn't?

COSTA: Trump actually has a stronger ground game than most people realize. He
has Santorum's former adviser helping him out. Carson has such a grass- roots
network at his base. What's really going to help Cruz or Carson, Huckabee,
Santorum, they're still in the race, they are still splitting that Tea Party,
evangelical vote. Until they get out, it is going to remain crowded.

WALLACE: The other interesting development, just late this week, Brit, is Chris
Christie, who got the endorsement of the Manchester Union Leader and seems to be
getting some traction in New Hampshire, where obviously his campaign was in some
trouble. But he seems to be picking up some steam there.

HUME: He seems to be going nowhere in Iowa, which doesn't hurt in New Hampshire.
New Hampshire voters have a long history of reacting negatively to people who
come in with a head of steam from Iowa, so that's actually a kind of a plus for
him. And I think, you know, he may be about to have a moment here, as candidates
sometimes do. He's campaigned intensely in the state, and his bluff style I
think has some traction there. So I wouldn't be surprised to see him make a
move, too. This race is still a jumble.

HARMAN: It's a year away, all of this helps Hillary Clinton. It's a race for the
soul of the Republican Party, and if it's a populist, right-wing soul, I think
she wins.

WALLACE: Well, it's not a year away for Iowa, though. It's less than 70 days.
Thank you, panel. See you next Sunday. Thanks for coming in on this holiday
weekend. Up next, our power player of the week. Once again, yes, once again, I
dance with the turkeys.

WALLACE: The arrival of the official Christmas tree at the White House. This
year's tree comes from a farm in Lansdale, Pennsylvania.

Well, here is a holiday riddle we ask every Thanksgiving. Who founded a huge
tech company, created a successful cosmetic business, and now raises turkeys
like the Indians did? Here's our power player of the week.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

SANDY LERNER, AYRSHIRE FARMS: Farm with the land, farm with the season, know
your soil, know your rainfall, know your weather, know your animals.

WALLACE: Sandy Lerner is talking about sustainable farming, raising livestock
and growing vegetables without the chemicals that are so common in what she
calls factory farming. Just days before Thanksgiving, she took me out to see
and, yes, to dance, with her 1,300 turkeys, heritage breeds that trace back to
the Indians.

LERNER: Come on, raise your arms. Gobble, gobble, gobble, gobble!

WALLACE: Lerner is mistress of Ayrshire Farms, 800 acres in Upperville,
Virginia. But as interesting as her business is how she got here. She grew up on
a farm in California, making enough from raising cattle to send herself to
college.

LERNER: What I learned was to love work. I'm really happiest when I'm engaged in
working, and thinking and striving.

WALLACE: She got into computers. In 1984, she and her then husband started Cisco
Systems. They found a way to link networks of computers, the foundation of the
Internet, but six years later venture capital people were running Cisco.

WALLACE: How do you get fired from a company that you started?

LERNER: We just basically got taken to the cleaners. And part of that was if you
don't have an employment contract -- I got fired by the same guy who fired Steve
Jobs.

[ LAUGHTER ]

WALLACE: Lerner had a second act. She started a cosmetics company called Urban
Decay, with edgy colors for women like her. And in 1996, she bought Ayrshire
Farm.

LERNER: It's historically been people who had disposable income who made strides
in farming, look at George Washington or look at Thomas Jefferson.

You're such a pretty girl. Pretty is as pretty does.

WALLACE: She raises shires, warhorses that go back centuries. Scotch Highland
cattle, and those turkeys, which she says taste better because of the lives they
lead.

WALLACE: How much is an Ayrshire turkey cost as compared to what I get in the
grocery store?

LERNER: Well, our turkeys are expensive, they are between, I think they're
running this year about $160 to $200.

WALLACE: At those prices, there are questions about how to make this kind of
farming profitable. But while Lerner is determined to run a sound business, it's
not just about the bottom line.

There's a 40-room mansion on the farm. What's it like living there?

LERNER: I don't know.

WALLACE: What do you mean?

LERNER: I live in a little log cabin and I love it.

WALLACE: Do you think you are a big eccentric?

LERNER: I am now that I'm rich. I used to just be weird.

WALLACE: And so just days before Thanksgiving, Sandy Lerner and I danced with
the turkeys. She grew up on a family farm, and she wants to see those values
live on.

LERNER: I'm a cow girl. I can tell what cows are thinking. It's very much my
success as a farmer, which is what George Washington was. He wanted to be a
really good farmer. And I think I've been, I've become a good farmer.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

WALLACE: Sandy Lerner sold more than 800 turkeys this Thanksgiving. She donated
more than 200 to local charities.

That's it for today. Have a great week. We'll see you next FOX NEWS SUNDAY.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 112901cb.250

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SHOW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            November 29, 2015 Sunday

                       SHOW: FOX NEWS SUNDAY 9:00 AM EST

Deadly Shooting at Planned Parenthood Center; Interview with Carly Fiorina;
Americans Face Heightened Travel Security; Interview with Sen. Richard Burr;
Panel Talks GOP Politics; Ben Carson Visits Jordan; Donald Trump Fends Off
Criticism; Christmas Comes to the White House

BYLINE: Chris Wallace, Will Carr, Kevin Corke, Brit Hume, James Rosen

GUESTS: Carly Fiorina, Richard Burr, Jane Harman, Robert Costa, Sandy Lerner

SECTION: NEWS; International

LENGTH: 8156  words


CHRIS WALLACE, FOX NEWS HOST: I'm Chris Wallace.

A deadly siege at a Planned Parenthood center. Now, police search for a motive.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

(SIREN WAILING)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He was aiming at me and he started shooting. And I was
looking at his face.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, there was a lot of gunfire.

WALLACE: Three dead, including a police officer. Was it related to allegations
about the sale of fetal body parts for research?

We'll talk with GOP presidential candidate Carly Fiorina, a staunch opponent of
Planned Parenthood's abortion practices.

Then, Americans face heightened security at home, on the busiest travel holiday
of the year.

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I want the American people to know
that we are taking every possible step to keep our homeland safe.

WALLACE: In the midst of a worldwide travel alert due to terror attacks, we'll
set down with Richard Burr, chair of the Senate Intelligence Committee. It's a
FOX NEWS SUNDAY exclusive.

Plus, Ben Carson looks to beef up his foreign policy credentials with a trip to
Syrian refugee camps.

And Donald Trump fends off criticism he mocked a reporter's disability.

We'll ask the Sunday panel about a GOP course correction.

All, right now, on FOX NEWS SUNDAY.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

WALLACE: And hello again from FOX News in Washington.

A deadly shooting at a Planned Parenthood Center in Colorado Springs is renewing
debates over abortion and gun control. But while a suspect is in custody, it's
still unclear what motivated him to open fire.

We'll talk with presidential Carly Fiorina in a moment, but first, FOX News
correspondent Will Carr is live outside the clinic -- Will.

WILL CARR, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Chris, while Robert Lewis Dear is set to
appear in court on Monday, the question is why did he kill three people and
injure nine others?

This weekend, authorities have been searching his trailer in nearby Park County,
Colorado, looking for clues. Keep in mind that Dear surrendered on Friday and
now there are multiple reports that he's been rambling in interviews with
investigators, at one point saying, quote, "no more baby parts", which appears
to refer to recent videos allegedly showing Planned Parenthood officials
discussing the sale of fetal body parts.

Investigators digging into Dear's past after they say he stormed the Planned
Parenthood behind me with an assault weapon and got into a shootout with police
on Friday. He previously lived in a cabin in North Carolina with no, and had
past arrests for domestic violence and animal cruelty. Those who knew him best
say he kept to himself and he never spoke about religion or abortion.

At the same time, one of his victims, Officer Garrett Swasey is being remembered
as a father, an athlete, and an athlete and man of God.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If I can put it in a nutshell, I think he was -- he was a
person who served his community with integrity, served with his whole life. I
think he meant hope to this community.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CARR: President Obama issuing a statement in part which says, enough is enough
in regards to gun violence, and at the same time, Attorney General Lynch calling
this a crime against women who use Planned Parenthood for health care services
-- Chris.

WALLACE: Will Carr, reporting from Colorado Springs -- Will, thanks for that.

Joining me now is Republican presidential candidate Carly Fiorina, who has taken
a hard line against Planned Parenthood's abortion practices.

Ms. Fiorina, welcome back to FOX NEWS SUNDAY.

CARLY FIORINA (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Thanks for having me, Chris. Happy
Thanksgiving.

WALLACE: Thank you. Same to you.

Your reaction to the shootings at that clinic in Colorado Springs?

FIORINA: Well, this is a tragedy. It's obviously a tragedy. Nothing justifies
this. And presumably this man who appears deranged, if nothing else, will be
tried for murder, as he should be. But it's a tragedy, especially on a holiday
weekend.

WALLACE: You have been one of the toughest critics, as we've said, of Planned
Parenthood's alleged harvesting of body parts, selling for fetal research. Some
of the pro-choice advocates are saying language like yours, not single you out,
but language like yours, has incited violence. I'd like to get your reaction to
that. But also, what would you say to protesters, people outside these clinics,
about the limits of their opposition?

FIORINA: Well, first, it is not alleged. Planned Parenthood acknowledged several
weeks ago they would no longer take compensation for body parts, which sounds
like an admission that they were doing so.

Secondly, this is so typical of the left to immediately begin demonizing the
messenger, because they don't agree with the message. The vast majority of
Americans agree, what Planned Parenthood is doing is wrong. That's why the vast
majority of Americans are prepared not only to defund Planned Parenthood, but
also to stop abortion for any reason at all after five months.

So, what I would say to anyone who tries to link this terrible tragedy to anyone
who opposes abortion or opposes the sale of body parts is, this is typical
left-wing tactics.

WALLACE: And what would you say to the protesters, the people that are outside
the clinics and oppose it?

FIORINA: Well, any protesters should always be peaceful, whether it's Black
Lives Matter or pro-life protesters, protesters should always be peaceful and
respectful.

WALLACE: Let me turn subjects on you. President Obama is on his way to Paris
today for a climate change summit. And this week, he linked that to the war on
terror. Take a look.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

OBAMA: What a powerful rebuke to the terrorists it will be when the world stands
at one and shows that we will not be deterred from building a better future for
our children.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WALLACE: Your reaction to the summit and to the contention by some in the Obama
administration that climate change is, if not the biggest, certainly the most
immediate threat to our national security?

FIORINA: Well, that's delusional. It is delusional for President Obama and
Hillary Clinton and anyone else to say that climate change is our near- term
most severe security threat. It is ISIS, period, followed closely by Iran and
perhaps Russia.

President Obama continues to think that somehow our behavior causes terrorism,
so he says the climate change summit is a powerful rebuke. No, it's not. The
terrorists don't care that we're gathering in Paris other than it provides a
target, just as he said, well, Republicans are giving terrorists a recruiting
tool when we don't think Syrian refugees should be allowed to enter this country
if we cannot properly vet them.

President Obama is delusional about this. He's delusional about the threat,
which apparently is why he won't do anything about it.

WALLACE: Do you think it's worthwhile for him to go to Paris, to go to this
international summit and try to work out emissions limits?

FIORINA: Well, look, if you read the fine print of the science, what the
scientists tell us, all those scientist who say climate change is real and
manmade, they also tell us that a single nation acting alone can make no
difference at all. That it would take a concerted global effort over 30 years,
costing trillions of dollars. I think the likelihood of that is near zero. So,
no, I don't think it's particularly productive.

I think it would be far more productive if President Obama instead was there
leading an international coalition to stop human trafficking or an international
coalition for humanitarian relief for the refugees or an international coalition
to defeat ISIS. All those would be more useful than time in Paris spent talking
about climate change.

WALLACE: You know, let's turn to the Republican presidential race. You have
gotten a big lift in the polls, particularly after the first two Republican
debates, but just looking at the numbers, you have fallen back since then.

Let's put up a couple of the polls. In the Real Clear Politics average of recent
polls in Iowa, you're not sixth with 3.7 percent. That's down from where you
were running third with 10.3 percent in early October. It's the same in New
Hampshire. You're now tied for ninth with 4.3 percent, down from early October
when you were running second with 14.3 percent.

You are a numbers person. Why do you keep sliding back?

FIORINA: Well, I'm a numbers person, but national polls and some of these polls
are notoriously unpredictive. They've never predicted a winner at this stage in
the race.

But here's what I would say. When I launched my campaign on May 4th, no one
would have said I would be in the top ten. No one would have said I would be on
the main stage.

In fact, every pundit on this channel and every other channel virtually wrote me
off. I've had a trajectory unlike any other candidate. I was the least
well-known candidates on May 4th. I remain at the bottom of well- known
candidates.

In other words, a lot of Republican voters still don't know who I am. I'm very
happy with where I am.

WALLACE: But let me --

FIORINA: And now, people are going to start paying attention. Now, people are
paying attention.

WALLACE: But let me check you on that, because I know you talk about name
recognition, so I looked into that this weekend. According to a national
Quinnipiac poll, this month, more Republicans now know who you are than know who
Marco Rubio is, or Ted Cruz, and yet, they're running ahead of you in the polls.
So, it isn't just name recognition.

FIORINA: No, I'm not saying it's just name recognition, but it is to say, that
having never run for a political office before and not being a household name
and in people's living rooms like Donald Trump and Ben Carson for many years,
people are getting to know me. And now, by the way, people are starting to pay
attention.

And so, later this week, I'm going to be rolling out my blueprint -- the
blueprint for what we need to do to take our country back. Our government is
crushing the potential of our nation, and to take our country back will require
a different kind of leadership in the White House. It is why I'm running.

It will require citizenship, and we need to do some very specific things -- from
radically simplifying the tax code, to go into zero-based budgeting, to
repealing Obamacare, to restoring the character of our nation, to enforcing a
pro-American immigration system, to defeating ISIS and getting back in the
leadership business around the world.

WALLACE: There's a lot I want to pick up on that. Specifically, first, you
mentioned Donald Trump. One of your biggest moments so far in this campaign was
when you shot back at Mr. Trump after he commented on your appearance.

This week he is under fire again, this time for mocking the physical disability
of a reporter. Take a look.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: You've got to see this guy, I don't
know what I said, I don't remember. He's like, I don't remember. Maybe that's
what I said. This is 14 years ago. Still, they didn't do a retraction!

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WALLACE: Are you prepared to call Trump out on that?

FIORINA: Well, yes, this is the pattern, isn't it? The pattern is he says
something insulting, offensive, outrageous, the media pays attention, and he
claims we all misunderstood him, the media pays attention again.

This is the pattern perhaps of an entertainer. It's certainly not a pattern of a
leader.

Apparently, Donald Trump only feels big when he's trying to make everyone else
look small. Of course, in the end, he looks the smallest of all.

WALLACE: You are talking about the fact you are going to come out with specifics
on a variety of issues. I want to talk about the tax code, because you have
taken some heat, for at least so far. I don't know what you're going to do this
week.

Not being specific enough, according to some people, on the tax code. You've
said that you want to reduce 73,000-page tax code to three pages. You say that
you're going to close every loophole and lower every tax rate.

But again, some people say you haven't been specific enough, so I'd like to do a
lightning round with you -- quick questions, quick answers, ask you some
specific questions, hopefully get some specific answers.

Would you end -- do you plan to end the home mortgage deduction?

FIORINA: Probably, yes, but by the way, there's been a plan for a three- page
tax code out for 20 years. This isn't news. Hoover Institute, a fine
conservative think tank of which I have served as a member of the board of
trustees, they've had a three-page tax code out for 20 years.

I think fundamentally what we ought to do is have the government to take away
less money so that it has to give less money back. A 73,000-page tax code is so
complicated. This is how the government maintains power. It's giving all these
credits and deductions back, because it takes too much away. Of course, it's
true, if you're late, you have to pay interest, but if the government is late,
they never pay interest.

WALLACE: Do you -- would you eliminate the deduction for charitable donations?

FIORINA: Probably. Look, if we added two more back in, let's say those are the
two most popular deductions, the charitable tax donations and home mortgage tax
deduction, good. Let's add two more back in.

The fundamental design philosophy, however, is lower every rate, close every
loophole, because government takes too --

WALLACE: But you would end both of those deductions.

FIORINA: I said probably, I said even if we put both back in, can you imagine
how much simpler that would be. This is what the government does. It takes away
too much money and then with all those deductions and loopholes, it exerts
power.

I could live with two deductions, Chris. I could live with the charitable and
the home mortgage deduction. But this is what always happens. Everybody says,
oh, you can't take those away for 73,000 pages never gets reformed, never gets
reform. The fundamental blueprint -- you have to have a blueprint to have
fundamental reform.

You know why this has never happened? Because everybody's ox is going to get
gored. If you go from 73,000 pages down to three pages, everybody's ox gets
gored -- every politician, every lobbyist, every accountant, every lawyer. The
only people who benefit are the small, the powerless, the new business.

The tax code, the complexity of government favors the big, the powerful, the
wealthy, the well-connected. It's called crony capitalism. Republicans have
engaged in it as well as Democrats.

If you level the playing field by simplifying, then you help the small all
powerless and the middle class.

WALLACE: Finally, and we're running out of time here -- President Obama got a
fair amount of criticism this week -- or rather, attention this weeks, not
criticism, for pardoning a turkey. It turns out you did the same thing. Take a
look.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

FIORINA: We are pardoning the turkey so that you go on to find yourself a nice
Tom and create some turkeys that maybe will get eaten next year.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WALLACE: I love -- that was Jenny, right?

FIORINA: That was Jenny, that was jenny.

WALLACE: So, that is an Obama policy that you would continue as president?

FIORINA: I think it's a presidential tradition. In fairness to Obama, I think
many presidents have pardoned turkey.

WALLACE: But under President Fiorina, there will be turkey pardoning?

FIORINA: Yes, I will, Toms and Jennies.

WALLACE: OK. Ms. Fiorina, thank you. Thanks for sharing part of your holiday
with us.

FIORINA: Thank you.

WALLACE: Up next, world leaders gather at a climb changes summit even as they
deal with the more immediate issue of terrorism.

We'll have a live report from Paris and discuss the threat to the U.S. homeland
with the chair of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Richard Burr, when we come
right back.

WALLACE: Two weeks after a devastating terror attack in Paris, 150 world
leaders, including President Obama, are now gathering in the French capital.
Their goal: to craft a landmark deal to fight global warming.

This comes amid a worldwide travel alerts for American citizens, although the
president says there's no specific threat at home this holiday weekend.

FOX News correspondent Kevin Corke is in Paris ahead of tomorrow's summit - -
Kevin.

KEVIN CORKE, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Chris, good day to you.

As you probably remember, back during the president's recent tour of Asia, it
was an economic tour, but clearly, global security and terrorism threatens to
overshadow that and again threatens to overshadow this climate gathering in
Paris.

And given the events of the 13th of November -- to say noting of the fact that
we're going to be joined by dozens of world leaders here in Paris for this
particular summit, the security footprint, the posture is immense. And that
should not surprise anyone.

Climate policy is clearly a legacy item the White House wants to solidify for a
president who has said previously that it poses an immediate risk to national
security. So, we should expect some sort of an accord for the countries gathered
here, Chris, before the end of the conference, something actionable, not
necessarily a treaty.

Meanwhile, you should also expect the president to make use of the time in Paris
to meet with Presidents Hollande of France and Putin of Russia, maybe even
Erdogan of Turkey with ISIS and the Syrian conflict high on the agenda. Of
course, that's taken on a whole new level of importance in the wake of the
Russian fighter aircraft being shut down by the Turks over complaints that the
Russian aircraft violated Turkey's airspace.

And you also probably remember, the folks at home certainly should remember --
that goes back to the talks about de-escalation. We heard a lot about that,
Chris, in the early fall, and so, expect the White House and the president's
advisers in particular to try to tamp down the situation between Turkey and
Russia, and hopefully take what is clearly a volatile situation back down to a
manageable level -- Chris.

WALLACE: Kevin Corke, reporting live from Paris -- Kevin, thank you for that.

Joining us from North Carolina, Richard Burr, chair of the Senate Intelligence
Committee.

Chairman, as the busiest travel weekend of the year wraps up, is there any
specific, credible threats against Americans to the best of your knowledge,
either in this country or around the world?

SEN. RICHARD BURR (R-NC), CHAIR, INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE: Well, Chris, credible,
specific -- no. But for the past 12 months, there have been more threads of
threats both here at home and around the world that we've seen since 9/11. So,
the risk remains high, but clearly, in the United States, the FBI has wrapped up
over 67 individuals that were incarcerated this year and are either prosecuted
or in the process of being prosecuted. And that will continue.

WALLACE: How big an international footprint does ISIS have now? How serious a
threat in the U.S. and in other countries outside the Middle East?

BURR: Well, Chris, it's proven that ISIS is in 30 different countries, they
control eight provinces of countries. They've got a reach that goes throughout
Europe and North America.

So, to talk about containment is really a joke. The reality is that ISIS may be
geographically contained in Syria and Iraq, but their efforts around the world
to project terrorism and to commit terrorism is as robust today as it's ever
been.

WALLACE: Well, with that as a backdrop, Senator, at a news conference this week
with French President Hollande, President Obama did not announce -- despite the
attack in Mali, despite the attack in Paris -- did not announces in new steps in
his war against ISIS, which raises the question: what's your assessment of the
president as current strategy, and how much do you think it can accomplish?

BURR: Well, we have no strategy. I don't think you can find anybody in the world
outside of the administration that could attempt to state what America's
strategy is.

In the past three weeks, Chris, we've seen over 500 individuals killed around
the world at the hands of ISIS. I don't think there's any question of that. And
in Syria alone, we've had over 240,000 Syrians killed. That's both by Assad and
ISIS, and over 4 million refugees in flight.

It's time for an international coalition to come in and arm groups like the
Kurds to create a safe haven, a no-fly zone, where we can stop the refugee
flight out of Syria. But only with American leadership will that happen.

And I hope that while the administration is in Paris, maybe they'll talk with
President Hollande, who I think is committed to eliminate ISIS. We've got to
stop talking about containment and we've got to talk about elimination of the
terrorist threat.

WALLACE: Meanwhile, Hollande after meeting with President Obama in Washington
then flew to Moscow to meet with Russian President Putin.

And here is what President Obama said about Putin:

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Russia right now is a coalition of
two, Iran and Russia, supporting Assad.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WALLACE: What's your best intelligence, Chairman Burr? Can we count on Putin at
all? There's talk about a grand coalition. At first, it seemed when Putin met
with Hollande, there was a possibility he would join the coalition, then the
Russians seemed to walk away from that.

What's your sense of Putin's intentions?

BURR: Well, I think Putin's intention is to prop up Assad. That's always been
his stated goal. I don't think that we can not remember that Putin invaded
Crimea, currently prosecutes a border war in the Ukraine. I'm not sure that
Putin can be trusted.

But, Chris, let me make this fact: ISIS has to be eliminated. I'm ready to put
together whatever coalition is willing to attack ISIS and eliminate this
terrorist threat. That means Gulf state partners, it means European partners, it
may mean Russia.

But Russia sure complicates the options we have in Syria, with the amount of
aircraft, with the amount of arms that they have there. If we can focus those on
ISIS versus the moderate opposition forces that are trying to defeat Assad, we
could make a real impact, but that's going to take a great deal of diplomacy
that we have yet to see.

WALLACE: There's been some interesting developments on intelligence issues,
really, in the last week. I want to talk to you about those, sir.

Today at midnight, the NSA's bulk data collection of America's phone records,
that program expired as of last night, and now the NSA is going to need a court
order from a judge to collect records on any American. And again, we're not
talking about the content of the phone call, simply my phone number called your
phone number, and we spoke, or people on those two lines spoke for X number of
minutes.

What impact do you think that's going to have on your counter-terrorism effort?

BURR: Chris, I don't think it's too troubling you would need a court order. I
think what's troubling is that you'll have to go to multiple telecom companies,
and at their pace search their records, which means it could take weeks. What we
saw in Paris once we got a cell phone was that we used that cell phone number to
look at cell phones it had talked to -- and not only Paris investigators but
Belgian investigators were able to expand the search net in a way that stopped a
massive terrorist attack, an additional one in Paris, potentially has led to the
apprehension of at least a dozen, if not more, ISIS operatives throughout
Belgium, Germany, and parts of Europe.

I'm not sure that we know the full extent of what we've learned to this point,
but any time you can take electronics and use those selectors, it's beneficial
to the world's intelligence community. And the United States made a real mistake
when they eliminated this program where we could search foreign known terrorist'
cell phones.

But Congress took that away from the NSA, and, unfortunately,. it's not going to
be a timely tool to use in the future.

WALLACE: Well, let me pick up on that. You have signed on to legislation that's
now in the Senate that would revive the program, which is I say ran out as of
midnight, but the Senate just voted to end the program in June. So, what are the
chances that they're going to reverse that just a few months later?

BURR: Well, Chris, it's amazing what happens when people are reminded what
terrorists can do. It hadn't happened here at home, but I think the American
response to the Paris attack was as significant outside of New York and New
Jersey as 9/11 was. The American people recognize that the indiscriminate,
brutal acts that ISIS carried out could happen in any community across this
country and throughout the world.

And I think as Americans, we believe we should do everything we can to eliminate
that. Knowing who the terrorists are and where operatives may be in the United
States or something, Americans expect us to know, they expect us to investigate.

I want to make sure that the tools that law enforcement have are as robust as
they possibly can be, and metadata is a big contributor to that.

WALLACE: I want to get into one last issue with you. There are several
allegations into allegations that officers at the U.S. Central Command, the
military operation that oversees the Middle East, were altering and doctoring
the intelligence from their analysts to downplay the threat from ISIS. I know
you've talked to whistle-blowers. I know there are several investigations going
on in your committee, also the Pentagon inspector general.

How substantial is the evidence that intelligence was doctored, sir?

BURR: Well, it's very concerning. The whistle-blower that I've talked to was
very compelling. And, clearly, some of the information that's come out in the
last seven days supported what that whistle-blower claimed.

Any time we've got intelligence that may have been altered in some way, shape or
form to fit a narrative that might be the narrative set by the White House is
concerning to me. To think that it could come from one of our combatant
commands, in this case CentCom, is extremely troubling, because that changes
really the risk that our combat forces might perceive, that they're going to be
faced with in that combat theater.

WALLACE: Let me, let me pick --

BURR: So, I want to make sure that our -- yes, sure.

WALLACE: Let me just pick up on that, if I can, sir, because this week, when
faced with those allegations, President Obama denied that he had anything to do
with that. Take a look at what the president had to say.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

OBAMA: One of the things I insisted on the day I walked into the Oval Office was
that I don't want intelligence shaded by politics. I don't want it shaded by the
desire to tell a feel-good story.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WALLACE: Briefly, Senator, do you have any evidence the White House was involved
in cooking the intelligence?

BURR: Chris, I don't, but we're going to look at the timeline very carefully to
figure out whether the narrative was there before the intelligence backed it up.
We've got a case in Benghazi that's currently under investigation, where we know
that a narrative went out that was factually incorrect. When all the facts on
the ground said it was terrorism, we were out talking about a video.

So, narrative has been something that this White House has run with before. It
concerns me now because Americans' lives are at stakes. Our soldiers, our
sailors, our airmen, our marines' lives are at stake when we do this.

WALLACE: Chairman Burr, thank you. Thanks for you your time on this holiday
weekend, sir.

BURR: Thank you, Chris.

WALLACE: Up next, our Sunday Group joins the conversation on the increased
terror threat, just as the government's bulk data collection of Americans phone
records runs out.

Plus, what would you like to ask the panel about keeping the homeland safe? Just
go to Facebook or Twitter at FOX NEWS SUNDAY. And we may use your question on
the air.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. MARCO RUBIO (R-FL), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: But if God forbid tomorrow
morning there's a terrorist attack in the United States, the first question
everyone is going to have is why didn't we know about it? And why didn't we stop
it?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WALLACE: Senator Marco Rubio taking a swipe at the expiration today of the
government's bulk data collection program as the U.S. and the world face an
increase terror threat. And it's time now for our Sunday group Fox News senior
political analyst Brit Hume, former Democratic congresswoman Jane Harman,
director of the Woodrow Wilson Center. Fox News chief Washington correspondent
James Rosen, author of the new book, "Cheney One on One." And Robert Costa from
"The Washington Post." Brit, it's an interesting confluence of events, the bulk
data collection program of Americans phone records that we pointed out, ran out
at midnight last night just as the State Department issues a worldwide travel
alert for all Americans. What do you make of those two things?

BRIT HUME, FOX NEWS SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: Well, and there's more to it than
that. Because this figures into Republican presidential campaign, because Marco
Rubio and Ted Cruz are competing for some of the same voters and one of Rubio's
talking points, reflected in part by the soundbite that you showed, is that Cruz
voted to end this program. So, you have that factor added in all of this as
well.

My sense (INAUDIBLE) that we never did have a victim that came forward. It was
ever shown that there was one, of this program, and intelligence professionals
such as Mike Hayden ...

WALLACE: Former ...

HUME: CIA director who'd been on this program many times, have insisted again
and again that it was very useful and helpful. And so I think it's fair to say
that great many intelligence professionals said we're now without an effective
tool for anticipating these terror attacks.

WALLACE: Well, let me ask an intelligence professional, Congresswoman Harman.
You were the former top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee when you
were in Congress. Did you ever see evidence that the NSA abused its powers in
collecting Americans' phone records? And do you think the expiration of the
program as of midnight will hurt our counter- terrorism effort?

JANE HARMAN, FMR. U.S. CONGRESSWOMAN: Well, first of all, I supported the
program. I was briefed on it early in the Bush administration. I thought that
the legal underpinnings were weak, and in 2008, Congress made a big effort to
put the whole program under law as part of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Act. So, I voted for that. This change came about after I left Congress -- I
don't think because I left Congress, but there's been a lot of discontent after
the Edward Snowden leaks, with the so-called invasion of privacy. But the good
news is this, first of all the program was not abused, second of all, the law
that recently passed, which does change the program, doesn't eliminate it. But
third of all, we have other surveillance tools, which are lawful and which we
continue to employ and a big chunk of those expires or sunsets in 2017. By then
I would hope that there would be a coalition that would understand the point of
having robust and surveillance tools for our government given the terror threat.

WALLACE: We asked you for questions for the panel. And we got this on Facebook
from Andrea Jamison. She writes - "How can we trust the president with vetting
refugees," talking clearly about the Syrian refugees, when he doesn't do
anything about sanctuary cities and open borders? James, how do you answer
Andrea?

JAMES ROSEN, FOX NEWS CHIEF WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT: That's a good one, Andrea.
I would say that, look, the president is going to take a national security
approach to the vetting of the refugees, perhaps more than he would with the
immigration issue. And that can be debated as to whether that's the right
approach. I do want to pick up on one other point from our discussion here. On
the same day when President Obama was in Antalya, Turkey, giving his fuller set
of remarks about the Paris attacks, you'll recall he famously got irritated by
the questions from the reporters saying that's a variation on the same question.
He was then essentially telling us the strategy against ISIS is working more or
less. It's making progress. It's set back. It's going to take some time. At the
same day, on the very same day we had John Brennan, director of CIA, telling us
at the CSIS audience the two things were occurring. Number one, the terrorists
are going to school on new inscription technologies. That's the word he used,
going to school. Secondly, post Edward Snowden, collection efforts are
restricted. So, here you have the president saying, in essence, the strategy is
working, give it time. Here you have John Brennan saying the terrorists, in
essence, are getting the upper hand, because they are getting better inscription
technologies and our hands are being tied behind our backs. Those were not
consonant messages from the president and his CIA director.

WALLACE: Robert, I want to switch to an issue of domestic violence, if not
domestic terrorism, and that was a deadly attack on Friday at the Planned
Parenthood clinic in Colorado Springs, in which a gunman killed one police
officer and two civilians. It is unclear, although, he did talk about no more
baby parts, it's unclear what his motive was, but do you think this will fire up
the political debate about abortion and about gun control?

ROBERT COSTA, THE WASHINGTON POST: On gun control, I do not. Based on my
reporting, there's no political capital within the Congress, a Republican
congress, to move forward on gun control. In some swings states like
Pennsylvania, Senator Pat Toomey, who's up for re-election, he's talked around
background checks, but most of the other Republicans who are running next year
aren't pushing for it. On abortion, we've seen the House Republicans go hard
after Planned Parenthood with investigations. There still remains an
anti-abortion party. I don't see that changing, though the pitch and tone may
change in light of these attacks. We saw Senator Cruz in Iowa over the weekend
offer his condolences to the victims.

WALLACE: And what about the Democrats? Do you see them changing their position
at all on either issue?

COSTA: Especially on gun control. Democrats who are running for the Senate, for
governor, are taking their cues from the president. And he has urged Congress to
act more on gun control. We could see this become a key issue. I'm looking
especially at New Hampshire, with Kelly Ayotte, she's up for reelection next
year. She did not back -- for the Senate, and in the presidential race, Hillary
Clinton has been a staunch advocate for more gun control, but she doesn't really
have a competitive primary. I don't see it becoming central.

WALLACE: I want to talk about one other interesting development this week. That
we had major protests in Chicago over the release of a video, and also over the
charging of a white police officer with first-degree murder a year after he
allegedly shot an unarmed -- well, no, he had a knife, but no gun, young black
teenager 16 times. What was most interesting about the protest was that they
were clearly heartfelt and they clogged the Magnificent Mile, the downtown
shopping area of Chicago, as you can see. They were also peaceful.

HUME: They were peaceful, and in addition to that, they had a point, which was
why did it take a year for this video to surface? And the suspicion, of course,
is that at the time that the incident occurred and the video was made that Mayor
Rahm Emanuel was up for reelection and didn't want to have this surface with all
the potential trouble it could cause. Eventually, it seems the right thing was
done. The video is pretty graphic. It's pretty clear that he didn't need to
shoot that guy 16 times, if at all. And the guy has been charged with murder,
which seems like an appropriate charge, but the delay is a problem. The protests
were indeed peaceful, but I wonder if there would have been protests even on
this scale had the video come out at the time and the charge of murder been
lodged at the time. Remember what happened in Tennessee when something like this
occurred, and the response was immediate. Was it Tennessee or South Carolina?
I'm not - - I don't recall right at the moment, but there was a police shooting,
remember the guy who was shot dead in the park with the cop chasing after him.
He was immediately charged, and the community rallied. I'm not sure they would
have rallied as much in Chicago.

WALLACE: It is kind of astonishing, when the tape seems to incriminating, that
it would take - I think it was 13 months.

HUME: Yes.

WALLACE: ... to charge this individual officer.

HUME: Yeah, it's hard to explain that.

Panel, we have to take a break here. When we come back, the two front- runners
in the Republican presidential race trying to deal with some self- inflicted
wounds.

WALLACE: The GOP presidential candidate Dr. Ben Carson meeting with Syrian
refugees in Jordan, following weeks of questions about his foreign policy
credentials. And we are back now with the panel.

So Dr. Carson on a two-day trip to Jordan now says that those refugees should
stay in camps in Jordan, or someplace else in the Middle East, with increased
aid from the West, but should not be brought to the U.S.

Brit, does his 48 hours in the Middle East solve Ben Carson's commander in chief
issue?

HUME: I don't think it solves it, but I think it probably helps. I think it was
wise of him to go there, be seen there, as in the video you just showed, and of
course the remedy that he suggests is one that is likely to be popular among
Republican primary voters. That is don't bring them here, but help them there.
Which now he can say that he came to that conclusion by virtue of his visit
there, but it happens also to be a politically convenient position to take. So I
think it probably helps a bit, yes.

WALLACE: Congresswoman Harman, fair to say you're a long-time Democrat. If the
world stays, the world situation is ugly as it is, with the spread of ISIS, the
threat of ISIS spreading, and the civil war in Syria continuing, what impact
will that have on Hillary Clinton as a political candidate? Will her foreign
policy credentials, will her ties to Obama be a plus or a minus?

HARMAN: I think it will help anybody, and there are people who are running in
the Republican Party too, who are responsible and serious thinkers about foreign
policy. It will not help people who make outrageous comments about keep all the
Muslims out of the United States and build walls everywhere. And so I think it
will help her, but I think it could help responsible Republicans as well.

Let me just say one thing about the Carson visit. What's wrong with the million
refugees in Jordan and refugees hemorrhaging around Syria is all those countries
are now destabilized. We should understand that ISIS wants its caliphate for the
moment to be in Raqqah, Syria, but now there are rumors that it could move to
Libya, another failing state or almost failed state. And Yemen is a failed
state. And all of these places are ripe for this civil war within radical Sunni
Islam.

WALLACE: I just want to pick up on the Clinton question, because the polls
indicate by a very wide margin, people do not think this president has a handle
on ISIS, did not think he's being aggressive enough in fighting terrorism. She
was the secretary of state and the architect of much of this for the first four
years of Obama's term. You really don't think this will impact her?

HARMAN: Sure. People will try to connect her to parts of Obama's policies that
haven't succeed, but it's been public knowledge that she was for the limited
bombing in Syria, which Dave Petraeus, who also served Obama, was for, which I'm
-- personally was for. And I think that will be viewed as a major strategic
mistake of the Obama presidency.

WALLACE: Meanwhile, Republican front runner Donald Trump, as we mentioned
earlier with Carly Fiorina, created another major controversy for himself when
he seemed to mock a reporter with serious physical disabilities. Take another
look.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: He's going, I don't remember, maybe that's what I said. This is 14 years
ago. He still -- they didn't do a retraction.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WALLACE: Trump told a rally yesterday, James, that he would never make fun of
someone, and in fact that the reporter and the New York Times are exploiting
this situation and this misunderstanding. We have been thinking for a long
period of time that Trump was going to be saying something that would be over
the line. Is this the one?

ROSEN: Probably not. Donald Trump is new to the political arena in the sense of
campaigns and elections. He's not new by any means to media and messaging and
manipulation of the media. And I think that the greater threat to Donald Trump's
candidacy will not be displays of his eccentricities, such as this, or getting
into fights with John McCain or Megyn Kelly or the rest of it.

The greatest threat to Donald Trump's viability is the descent into
conventionality. And when that happens, that's when his numbers will drop.

WALLACE: There does not seem to be much danger of that in the immediate future.

ROSEN: Given the animal, yes.

WALLACE: Brit, your thoughts about Trump and this latest display?

HUME: It was pretty crude and pretty obvious what he was doing. For him to come
out and then say, oh no, I would never mock someone's disability is an almost
self-evident whopper, but I must say the striking thing about the Trump people
is, the Trump supporters, is nothing seems to matter. I think they have proved
Abraham Lincoln right when he said that you can fool some of the people all of
the time. He's doing it.

WALLACE: Perhaps the most important development this week, certainly one of the
most interesting was a new Quinnipiac poll. Take a look at it. In Iowa, which
now shows that Texas Senator Ted Cruz has doubled his support in the last month.
And as you can see is in in a statistical dead heat with Donald Trump, while Ben
Carson has fallen quite a bit in Iowa.

Robert, we've been waiting a long time to see whether or not the two front-
runners were going to lose altitude. Is this it?

COSTA: I just got back from a few days in Iowa, and I followed Senator Cruz
around. You can see the surge up close, people, the evangelical base are turning
away from Carson. They still respect him and still like him, but they see Cruz
as a credible outsider, someone who can perhaps go the distance, and Cruz is a
political athlete. I was with him at a faith forum. He stayed until nearly
midnight, shaking hands, talking to voters an hour after his speech had ended.
This is someone who's going to be having 17 or 18 stops today and tomorrow in
Iowa. He's making a play for that state, making a play for super Tuesday. If
Trump or Carson fall, for some reason, Cruz will be there to pick up some
support.

WALLACE: Let me pick up on a couple of aspects of that. First of all, to the
degree that there's any turning away from Carson, why is it?

COSTA: It's because of foreign policy. I have spoken to Carson's campaign
manager, Barry Bennett. He's with Carson in Jordan right now. They know this is
a vulnerability. They're trying to address it.

WALLACE: And as far as Cruz is concerned, we hear big aggressive ground game,
lots of money, he can play the role -- he's the senator, but as the insider's
outsider. How is all of that working? And how does it look up close?

COSTA: Cruz is not banking everything on Iowa. He's playing for March 1st, the
super Tuesday states, those Southern states, Alabama, he's looking even to
Massachusetts, places you're not really thinking about as key primary states.
Cruz has an organization there looking for the long haul.

WALLACE: What about the other candidates? Who's got -- particularly in Iowa.
That's the first one. Who's got a strong ground game there, and who of the
leading candidates doesn't?

COSTA: Trump actually has a stronger ground game than most people realize. He
has Santorum's former adviser helping him out. Carson has such a grass- roots
network at his base. What's really going to help Cruz or Carson, Huckabee,
Santorum, they're still in the race, they are still splitting that Tea Party,
evangelical vote. Until they get out, it is going to remain crowded.

WALLACE: The other interesting development, just late this week, Brit, is Chris
Christie, who got the endorsement of the Manchester Union Leader and seems to be
getting some traction in New Hampshire, where obviously his campaign was in some
trouble. But he seems to be picking up some steam there.

HUME: He seems to be going nowhere in Iowa, which doesn't hurt in New Hampshire.
New Hampshire voters have a long history of reacting negatively to people who
come in with a head of steam from Iowa, so that's actually a kind of a plus for
him. And I think, you know, he may be about to have a moment here, as candidates
sometimes do. He's campaigned intensely in the state, and his bluff style I
think has some traction there. So I wouldn't be surprised to see him make a
move, too. This race is still a jumble.

HARMAN: It's a year away, all of this helps Hillary Clinton. It's a race for the
soul of the Republican Party, and if it's a populist, right-wing soul, I think
she wins.

WALLACE: Well, it's not a year away for Iowa, though. It's less than 70 days.
Thank you, panel. See you next Sunday. Thanks for coming in on this holiday
weekend. Up next, our power player of the week. Once again, yes, once again, I
dance with the turkeys.

WALLACE: The arrival of the official Christmas tree at the White House. This
year's tree comes from a farm in Lansdale, Pennsylvania.

Well, here is a holiday riddle we ask every Thanksgiving. Who founded a huge
tech company, created a successful cosmetic business, and now raises turkeys
like the Indians did? Here's our power player of the week.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

SANDY LERNER, AYRSHIRE FARMS: Farm with the land, farm with the season, know
your soil, know your rainfall, know your weather, know your animals.

WALLACE: Sandy Lerner is talking about sustainable farming, raising livestock
and growing vegetables without the chemicals that are so common in what she
calls factory farming. Just days before Thanksgiving, she took me out to see
and, yes, to dance, with her 1,300 turkeys, heritage breeds that trace back to
the Indians.

LERNER: Come on, raise your arms. Gobble, gobble, gobble, gobble!

WALLACE: Lerner is mistress of Ayrshire Farms, 800 acres in Upperville,
Virginia. But as interesting as her business is how she got here. She grew up on
a farm in California, making enough from raising cattle to send herself to
college.

LERNER: What I learned was to love work. I'm really happiest when I'm engaged in
working, and thinking and striving.

WALLACE: She got into computers. In 1984, she and her then husband started Cisco
Systems. They found a way to link networks of computers, the foundation of the
Internet, but six years later venture capital people were running Cisco.

WALLACE: How do you get fired from a company that you started?

LERNER: We just basically got taken to the cleaners. And part of that was if you
don't have an employment contract -- I got fired by the same guy who fired Steve
Jobs.

[ LAUGHTER ]

WALLACE: Lerner had a second act. She started a cosmetics company called Urban
Decay, with edgy colors for women like her. And in 1996, she bought Ayrshire
Farm.

LERNER: It's historically been people who had disposable income who made strides
in farming, look at George Washington or look at Thomas Jefferson.

You're such a pretty girl. Pretty is as pretty does.

WALLACE: She raises shires, warhorses that go back centuries. Scotch Highland
cattle, and those turkeys, which she says taste better because of the lives they
lead.

WALLACE: How much is an Ayrshire turkey cost as compared to what I get in the
grocery store?

LERNER: Well, our turkeys are expensive, they are between, I think they're
running this year about $160 to $200.

WALLACE: At those prices, there are questions about how to make this kind of
farming profitable. But while Lerner is determined to run a sound business, it's
not just about the bottom line.

There's a 40-room mansion on the farm. What's it like living there?

LERNER: I don't know.

WALLACE: What do you mean?

LERNER: I live in a little log cabin and I love it.

WALLACE: Do you think you are a big eccentric?

LERNER: I am now that I'm rich. I used to just be weird.

WALLACE: And so just days before Thanksgiving, Sandy Lerner and I danced with
the turkeys. She grew up on a family farm, and she wants to see those values
live on.

LERNER: I'm a cow girl. I can tell what cows are thinking. It's very much my
success as a farmer, which is what George Washington was. He wanted to be a
really good farmer. And I think I've been, I've become a good farmer.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

WALLACE: Sandy Lerner sold more than 800 turkeys this Thanksgiving. She donated
more than 200 to local charities.

That's it for today. Have a great week. We'll see you next FOX NEWS SUNDAY.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 112901cb.250

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SHOW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            November 29, 2015 Sunday

                   SHOW: SUNDAY MORNING FUTURES 10:00 AM EST

Interview with Rep. Peter King; Terrorism in Families; Peggy Noonan Interview;
Interview with Toys `R' Us CEO on Holiday Shopping; Terrorism, National Security
Rise in Voter Polls; Kasich Targets Trump in New Ad; Will Fed Raise Rates?

BYLINE: Maria Bartiromo, Eric Shawn, Ed Rollins, Howard Kurtz

GUESTS: Peter King, Peggy Noonan, Dave Brandon Hank Sheinkopf, Doug Heye

SECTION: NEWS; International

LENGTH: 8221  words


MARIA BARTIROMO, FOX NEW SHOST: Good morning.

The fate of Syrian refugees in the United States awaiting more action by
Congress.

Hi, everyone. I'm Maria Bartiromo. Welcome to SUNDAY MORNING FUTURES on this
Thanksgiving weekend.

What will come of the bill in the Senate right now, now that it got a veto proof
majority in the House? New York Congressman Peter King will join us momentarily.

Plus, France President Hollande meeting with Presidents Obama and Putin, looking
to ramp up support for the fight against ISIS. Prominent author and columnist
Peggy Noonan on which president is showing the most leadership following the
attacks in Paris.

And they're off, shoppers flooding stores, cyberspace for holiday gifts. The CEO
of Toys "R" Us on the hottest toys of the season on this busy weekend.

We're looking ahead this morning on SUNDAY MORNING FUTURES.

Americans are being urged to be vigilant as they travel this holiday weekend
after the State Department issued a worldwide travel alert amid concerns
terrorist groups including ISIS continue to plan attacks in multiple regions of
the world.

Meanwhile, Congress will reconvene tomorrow morning, where the Senate may take
up a bill, passed by the House already, essentially barring Iraqi and Syrian
refugees from entering the country right now.

New York Congressman Peter King is on the Homeland Security Committee and is the
chairman of the subcommittee on counterterrorism and intelligence.

Congressman, good to see you. Thanks so much for joining us.

REP. PETER KING (R), NEW YORK: Thank you, Maria. Thank you very much.

BARTIROMO: What are you expecting out of this bill now in the Senate? I know
that it's been approved in the House. What next?

KING: Well, it was approved in the House. And not just approved, it was a
veto-proof majority. We had 47 Democrats vote with us. So I would hope that
Harry Reid will allow this to come to a vote in the Senate and not filibuster
it.

You know, there's a role for the filibuster. But when it comes to national
security and an issue like this which means so much to the American people, I
think Harry Reid and the Democrats owe it to the Congress to have a full debate
on this and a vote. Don't try to block it. Don't try to bury it. If it gets
defeated, so be it. I don't think it will be. I think it will pass
overwhelmingly if it's allowed to come to a vote. Reid has threatened to do
whatever he can to block it, probably by using the filibuster, and I would say
that's a -- it's a mistake for our national security and it's also a mistake for
our faith in democracy.

BARTIROMO: Congressman, what do you say to those people out there who say, look,
America is a country of immigrants. We're all immigrants from our ancestors who
made the trek to America from all parts of the world. We want to have a heart.
We want to open the U.S. to people who need us most and now we're shutting the
doors to these people who needs it most, even though we know that ISIS has begun
to infiltrate the flow of refugees.

KING: Yes, well, first of all, Maria, you're totally right, we are a nation of
immigrations. And you and I particularly appreciate that coming from New York
with our ethnic ancestry and having dealt with immigrant aunts, uncles,
grandparents. So we understand the beauty of immigration.

And I, in fact, going back to 1993, I visited Muslim refugee camps in the
Balkans. So I support the idea of refugees coming to this country, except in
this situation with Syrian refugees, the FBI and others in the -- in law
enforcement and counterterrorism have told us they cannot adequately vet the
Syrian refugees coming in because there are no databases, there are no records
in Syria, we have no intelligence on the ground to let us know who's who. And we
know that ISIS does intend to smuggle or sneak in terrorists with the refugees.

So this is a risk -- my main job is -- and my oath is to protect the American
people. And right now we are not at a position where we can take that risk of
allowing terrorists to come into the country. Even if 99 percent of 10,000
refugees are honest, law abiding people, that means 100 of them are potential
terrorists.

BARTIROMO: Yes.

KING: And that is too big a risk to take in this climate.

BARTIROMO: And we know that a Syrian passport was found in Paris.

KING: Right.

BARTIROMO: Apparently belonging to one of the attackers there.

I want to ask you about vetting and the vetting process, congressman. Stay with
us.

KING: Sure.

BARTIROMO: A lot to talk about with you this morning.

But first, from the Paris attacks to the Boston marathon bombings. Understanding
family jihad. Why it's becoming more common and how we stop it. Fox News' senior
correspondent Eric Shawn now on that angle.

Eric, good morning to you.

ERIC SHAWN, FOX NEWS SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, Maria, and good
morning, everyone.

It will take more than bombing Raqqa to defeat ISIS. Experts say that most
likely target -- we also have to target the ideology fueling radical Islamic
terrorism and also break the ties. The ties that in some cases include close
family relations between the terrorists.

The attacks have had one sorrowful and common connection, they are committed by
blood relatives, brothers, united in family and jihad. In Paris, authorities say
the Abdeslam brothers, Salah and Ibrahim, who blew himself up, rented the cars
to commit that carnage. The third brother, Mohamed, who was released, says his
siblings became radicalized on the Internet.

Ten months earlier, the brazen attack on "Charlie Hebdo" also carried out by two
brothers, Said and Cherif Kouachi, French citizens who were born in Paris.

In Boston, the marathon bombings committed by the Tsarnaev brothers, Tamerlan
and Dzhokhar. Dzhokhar now sits on death row.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SHANNON TAYLOR, TERRORISM EXPERT: One brother grooms the younger brother, or one
cousin reaches out to the other cousin, or one relative reaches out to the next
relative, and who else are you going to hear or listen to or go with or travel
with or study with?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SHAWN: Well even the suspected mastermind of 9/11, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed
himself, turns out to be related to another terrorist. He's the uncle of Ramsey
Yousef. Yousef convicted of bombing the World Trade Center eight years before
9/11 in 1993. And Yousef was part of a terror cell that also included cousins.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TAYLOR: One can intimidate the other or one can be an example for the other. You
want the respect of one. You want the admiration of the other. One is following
their -- their lead and before you know it, they are both blowing themselves up
and taking a lot of others with them.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SHAWN: Well, in Canada, twin brothers, nicknamed the "terror twins," face
charges. So it seems breaking the bonds of brotherhood could be one of the
toughest challenges we face in the fight against terrorism.

Maria.

BARTIROMO: All right, Eric, thanks very much. Eric Shawn with the latest there.

And we are back now with Congressman Peter King.

Congressman, before I get into the vetting process, which I think all of our
viewers really want to hear your take on, let me get your take on how we track
these terrorists. Because the fact is, is the telecom companies really have been
encrypting information or the technology companies and the -- the -- the --

KING: Yes.

BARTIROMO: The technology has really gotten ahead of law enforcement. How much
tougher has it become to actually track what the terrorists are doing?

KING: This has made it extremely difficult. Whether it's FBI Director Jim Comey
or NYPD Commissioner Bill Bratton, they've been saying for several months now
how difficult it is to track terrorists, to track criminals for that matter,
because they can obtain these encrypted apps which makes -- so even if there's a
court order, there's no way that the FBI or local police or any law enforcement
agency can penetrate that -- that encryption. And the companies, which are
providing the encrypted apps, they say that when they sell the encryption to a
customer, that they lose the right. You know, the company itself loses the
ability to cooperate with the police. That they can't even break into the
encryption.

And something has to be done about this. I -- if we have to get legislation to
say it's wrong to sell this -- you know, it's illegal to sell this type -- you
know, encryption app, we have to do it.

BARTIROMO: Right.

KING: Because right now, I mean, I'm just thinking if any of these IT officials,
if any of their children were kidnapped and held hostage and they -- you know,
we couldn't penetrate the encryption, you know, I -- I think they -- you know,
that their mood would change quite a bit.

This is just wrong. It's dangerous. And it gives the bad guys, the terrorists,
the murderers, a -- a much bigger hand.

BARTIROMO: So there's this conflict between national security --

KING: Yes.

BARTIROMO: And people's privacy basically.

OK, let's talk about vetting. Why has it become so difficult to vet refugees
trying to get into this country?

KING: It's primarily Syria. Most other countries we can do the vetting with. But
in Syria, there -- there are no databases. The government has no records. We
have no access to them. We have no intelligence on the ground. Syria is
basically one dark hole as far as we're concerned. So a person coming through
from Syria, who is being vetted, and if they're being questioned, there's
nothing to -- you know, to vet them against.

They could have a phony name. They could have a phony date of birth, a phony
hometown. They could be lying about any type of terrorist connections they have.
And we have no way of knowing who they are unless somehow they come up on our
radar screen, which is very unlikely and hardly ever happen in a country like
Syria.

And this was brought to our attention. This is not something that Congress went
looking for. I mean this was brought to our attention by the director of the
FBI, by officials actually involved in the vetting --

BARTIROMO: Right.

KING: Saying that they did not have confidence that the vetting was working.

BARTIROMO: Yes. By the way, you know, just last week, after the Paris attacks,
France bombed certain areas within Syria that were known to be ISIS
headquarters, whether it be recruitment centers or other centers that ISIS was
in charge of. If we knew where exactly those places were, we knew ISIS had
recruitment centers, why didn't we bomb them before that, congressman? Why did
we have to wait for another attack in Paris, which killed more than 100 people,
to actually bomb those specific targets that we knew existed?

KING: Maria, the best answer I've gotten on that, and it's not a good answer, is
that because of the rules of engagement that the Obama administration has laid
down, those targets were probably off limits to our military because we're
afraid of any type of collateral damage.

Listen, in war, the goal is to minimize collateral damage. But there's always
the risk of collateral damage. And if it involves, unfortunately, several
civilians being killed in an attack, but that's going to save hundreds or maybe
thousands of people later on, that's a risk that's taken in war. So we have
very, very strict rules of engagement that this president has laid down
different from any other war, and that's why I believe those -- those targets
were still standing and why the French took them out really in the first day.

BARTIROMO: Wow! So -- so the strategy is such that we won't bomb if, in fact, we
see that there is civilians because these are the rules of engagement as per
President Obama then?

KING: Yes, Maria. In fact, even the fuel trucks, they were being -- they were
not attacked all this time --

BARTIROMO: Right.

KING: Because they were being driven by civilian drivers. And they didn't want
to kill the civilian driver, even though that fuel was being used to basically
-- you know, literally to fuel ISIS and to be sold on the black market to fund
and supply ISIS so it could carry out its murderous attacks.

BARTIROMO: Right.

KING: These are rules of engagement that never applied in any other war.

BARTIROMO: Wow! And we know that this is how ISIS is making its money, by
selling oil on the black market.

KING: That's right.

BARTIROMO: Congressman, good to have you on the program. Thanks very much.

KING: Maria, thank you very -- thank you, Maria, as always.

BARTIROMO: We appreciate it. And we will see you soon. Congressman Peter King.

French President Hollande described the ISIS threat as, quote, "an emergency
that requires urgent action." But is President Obama capable of an effective
response to that emergency? We'll talk with "The Wall Street Journal" columnist
and author Peggy Noonan next.

Follow us on Twitter @mariabartiromo, @sundayfutures.

We're looking ahead once again on SUNDAY MORNING FUTURES Today.

BARTIROMO: Welcome back.

Hours after the attacks in Paris, President Obama promised to be, quote,
"redouble U.S. efforts in fighting ISIS." President of France, Francois
Hollande, visited the White House this past week, hoping to unite in those
efforts to fight the terrorists. Hollande then travelled to Moscow for a similar
meeting with President Putin.

And while the world looks to America for leadership, a new Fox poll shows
President Obama's approval ratings now plunging to a 40 -- to 4 percent. That is
a near record low of 40 percent.

Joining me right now, the author of the new book "The Time of Our Lives," Peggy
Noonan is with us today, "The Wall Street Journal" columnist and former
speechwriter for President Ronald Reagan.

Peggy, good to see you.

PEGGY NOONAN, "THE WALL STREET JOURNAL" COLUMNIST: Good to see you. Thank you
for having me.

BARTIROMO: Congratulations on the book. And there is so much in that book to
talk about and I want to sort of weave what you've learned throughout your years
to what we're seeing today.

Let me begin on the most recent issues, and that is, of course, this Russian jet
was shot down by Turkey because Turkey says it was in its air space. What's your
sense of how things have escalated? Things seem a lot more dangerous than they
ever have.

NOONAN: Yes, and they seem dangerous in a day by day way. It's not playing out
over weeks and months. It's every morning, it's a different headline. This, the
action, the -- or apparent action of Turkey brings in NATO implications with
regard to Russia. So now and then you see a thing that is a mess and almost
unsolvable and then it gets a little worse. That's what I think just happened.

BARTIROMO: Yes, and you -- you know, you wrote last weekend, look, Americans are
looking at this, what's going on in Paris, and the -- this new tension in the
air and saying, this is not going away.

NOONAN: Yes.

BARTIROMO: We cannot negotiate them away from this at some negotiating table.

NOONAN: Right.

BARTIROMO: ISIS is coming.

NOONAN: Yes. They -- they are here. They had been, by the administration, much
too ignored as to their import, their strength, their ability to cause trouble.
Paris showed in some newer way -- in some new way, I think, with Paris, they
arrived to the extent that people said, OK, the only question now is, how do we
stop them? We are no longer debating, must they be stopped.

BARTIROMO: Yes.

President Obama seems to be trying to get a little tougher because that first
response, when he was oversea, people were really disappointed by --

NOONAN: Yes.

BARTIROMO: In terms of not understanding what American people were feeling. You
seem to capture the zeitgeist of America in your writings. How do you think the
country is feeling right now?

NOONAN: The country, I think, is perturbed looking at the president, trying to
figure out, you know, there is great mystique around the American presidency,
but on great issues there should not be mystery around American presidents. It
has been, and certainly in the days after Paris it appeared, you just couldn't
look at the president and figure out exactly how he thinks about ISIS, exactly
what he thinks it is, exactly what we should do. So there seemed almost a
leadership gap, not that he was a presence in this debate, but an absence from
the debate. And it is confusing for Americans, for all of us, and deeply
frustrating when we can't look to the top guy and figure out, OK, he's kind of
got his brain wrapped around it, we're going to do a, b and c, let's discuss
whether that's a good course. You don't get the sense he has his brain wrapped
around it. He's, since then, tried to do a lot of cleanup work.

BARTIROMO: Yes.

NOONAN: But -- but a bad impression was made.

BARTIROMO: You spent so much time with Ronald Reagan. Today he is known as one
of the best presidents in terms of certainly leadership and his policies. What
would -- what would Ronald Reagan do at this moment, in your view?

NOONAN: Well, I can never answer that question because he was very much a man of
a specific time and place, dealing with specific issues, the issues of his age,
expansionist communism. But I cannot believe that his thoughts and his feelings
about this challenge would be essentially mysterious and confusing to the
American people.

Reagan had a way of, no matter what his most recent strategy was, say about the
Soviets, you know, talk to Gorbachev, work this out, put up your hand and say,
don't do that. Whatever it was, you knew exactly how he felt about the Soviet
Union, exactly how he felt about communism. He was never afraid to name it. He
actually was not afraid to call it an evil empire. So he had a lovely bracing
clarity that was based on the ability to accurately read the situation.

One does not sense that with the current president on these issues. On domestic
issues, you kind of get a sense of where his heart is, when a Newtown happens or
a Charleston. But ISIS, the Mideast, oh, that's an area of confusion and
confusion only begets confusion.

BARTIROMO: What's your take on Hillary Clinton? Secretary Clinton, last week,
came out with her own ISIS plan. And a lot of people looked at it, wondering if
it was just a continuation of President Obama's plan or different.

NOONAN: I thought it was simply, inevitably and yet somehow dishearteningly a
merely political document. This was something cooked up by Hillary and her
people, thinking, OK, what the president's doing, people don't seem to like. But
what -- if we did this, others wouldn't like it. So let get as far from him as
possible in certain specifics, but stay with him on the essentials. That's how I
read it.

Which is not good enough when you're running for president. People running for
president should say, this is how I see it. And this is what I think needs to be
done. Whether or not that is politically good for them. If it's not politically
good for them, fine, then the power of persuasion, and I can make an argument,
comes in, and you can win an argument when you're thinking straight.

BARTIROMO: Right.

Peggy, the power of perspective is what we are grateful to you for. Thank you so
much.

NOONAN: Thank you.

BARTIROMO: Peggy Noonan. The book is "The Time of Our Lives." Real perspective
from Peggy Noonan this morning. We'll see you soon, Peggy. Thank you.

Up next, the holiday shopping rush now underway. The CEO of Toys "R" Us will be
with me to talk about the crucial sales period this weekend and for the rest of
the month. It shows off the hottest toys in the market as well.

We're looking ahead right now on SUNDAY MORNING FUTURES.

BARTIROMO: This, of course, is the critical weekend for shopping and for retail
for the U.S. economy. We're talking about shopping right now and what we might
expect, what that tells us about economic growth and jobs. Right now with the
CEO of Toys "R" Us Dave Brandon joining us.

Dave, good to see you. Thanks so much for joining us.

DAVE BRANDON, CEO, TOYS "R" US: Oh, it's nice to be here with you.

BARTIROMO: And I know that consumer spending is two-thirds of economic growth.
That's why this weekend is really critical for the entire industry.

BRANDON: It really is. It gets things kind of set up for the whole holiday
season. We get to see what kind of traffic we experience, how consumers are
reacting to both our regular price, as well as our promotional products. It's a
critical time.

BARTIROMO: And you're ramping it up, going -- going into, obviously,
Thanksgiving, Christmas. I mean the whole month of December. Tell us about the
sales and how you're ramping things up.

BRANDON: Well, part of the challenges we have is to make sure that we've got
robust inventories all the way through this really busy time. We get such volume
compressed into such a short period of time. So we'll -- we'll continue to flow
merchandise to our stores and continue to build sales all the way up until
Christmas Eve.

BARTIROMO: I feel like this is particularly important this weekend because we've
had an economy that's very much slow, two steps forward, one step back when you
look at the economic data. Was that -- is that a fair statement?

BRANDON: Sure, it is. And the toy category is unique. And consumers behave a
little bit differently as it relates to toys for families during this time of
the year. So those -- those indicators of other categories are interesting, but
it will be really interesting for us to see how the consumer reacts as it
relates to their toy purchases.

BARTIROMO: So you brought some toys to show us.

BRANDON: You bet.

BARTIROMO: What you think is going to be hot. This is the "Star Wars." Tell --
tell me about this product right here, because "Star Wars" is so hot.

BRANDON: This --

BARTIROMO: And I think all the products from the film are going to be --

BRANDON: This will be a really hot product. All of the "Star wars" themes will
be really hot products --

BARTIROMO: Right.

BRANDON: Because we're building towards the December 18th release of the movie.
And you'll see more and more promotion coming out of Disney and Lucas Films, as
well as all of us who are in the business of promoting merchandise.

BARTIROMO: So this lights up? This is a -- the --

BRANDON: This is a lightsaber. This lights up. And it provides a wonderful
opportunity for brothers and sisters to go at one another during the season.

BARTIROMO: Oh, I know parents love that.

BRANDON: And it makes sounds. It makes noises, lights up, does some really
interesting things.

BARTIROMO: And this guy is -- that's going to be a hot seller.

BRANDON: This guy is really going to be terrific. He's phenomenal. He'll go
backwards. He'll go forwards. He'll spin around. He'll rotate back and forth.
He'll interact with you for -- with voice recognition. He'll -- he'll beam a
light beam up on the wall, a picture of Princess Leia. He's got all kinds of
sounds and opportunities for young people to just enjoy tooling this thing
around the house.

BARTIROMO: What is the -- what's the price of this one?

BRANDON: This regularly sells for $159.99.

BARTIROMO: And --

BRANDON: There's a lot of technology. It's really a little robot.

BARTIROMO: Wow! And -- because of their sensors all over, right?

BRANDON: There's sensors all over and it's capable of doing so many things.

BARTIROMO: This is a Toys "R" Us exclusive, "Journey Girl."

BRANDON: Yes, "Journey Girls" is a line that we have that's very, very
successful. We have a whole line of dolls. Every holiday season we roll out a
new doll. This is an Italian themed doll that we're going to do a really good
job with. We do every year. It's a beautiful doll. And it retails for $49.99.

BARTIROMO: Dolls never go out of style. Let's face it, right?

BRANDON: Dolls are always in style.

BARTIROMO: Little girls want dolls.

And what about this guy here? This is a lot of computer and technology in here
too, right?

BRANDON: Yes. This guy is capable of helping a young child learn how to learn
their ABCs, learn how to count. It's -- it's interactive. He'll dance. He'll
perform.

BARTIROMO: He's cool.

BRANDON: And so anywhere from nine months up to four or five years, this is
really a fun, easy toy. It's a Fisher-Price product and it's doing a great job.
I think it's going to be one of the hottest items of the holiday season.

BARTIROMO: Press it once and he just keeps going.

BRANDON: He's going to just keep going.

BARTIROMO: And this guy here, I like it. He's one of my favorites.

BRANDON: Yes. Smart Toy Bear and we have a Smart Toy Monkey. And both of these
are programmable toys. In their nose here, they've got a scanner and a camera,
which allows them to actually be programmed to interact with different things
that are flashed in front of them --

BARTIROMO: Wow!

BRANDON: By the child. So the child can learn how to brush their teeth, learn
when it's time for a snack, learn how to dance. And this toy will actually teach
them and the parent can have some control over the messaging because they can
program it through their app.

BARTIROMO: That's amazing.

Are you seeing increasing numbers of toys that are robust toys, with have
sensors in them and cameras and all of this stuff?

BRANDON: You bet. The staples, the regular dolls are toys are certainly out
there. But what the young people of today want is more interactivity, they want
voice activation, voice recognition, robotics, movement, sounds.

BARTIROMO: How do you change the business depending on what you see this
weekend? I mean do you have to -- if -- if it's not a great weekend, if it
doesn't meet expectations, what does that mean for you or budget plans in 2016
and -- and the opposite as well, if it's a great weekend?

BRANDON: The benefit for us being a big player in the online business, we have a
$1.2 billion online business, is dynamic pricing and dynamic promotions are
available to us. So you literally, with the flip of a switch, can change mix,
you can change promotions, you can blast out new opportunities and values to
consumers and you can change prices. So you'll see a lot of that activity
ongoing over the next few weeks.

BARTIROMO: So if -- in other words, if you see a weekend where it's below
expectations, you can expect the sale to ramp up even more?

BRANDON: You could.

BARTIROMO: Discounting will go crazy into the holidays.

BRANDON: You could. But what -- what happens is, interestingly enough, there's
always hot toys that everybody wants.

BARTIROMO: And they'll pay up for that.

BRANDON: And they tend to be in limited supply. And those are going to be the
ones where supply is more important than price. And so that's all part of the
dynamic management of the toy business during this time of year.

BARTIROMO: That makes a lot of sense.

So hottest toy right now?

BRANDON: Hottest toy right now would be this guy right here.

BARTIROMO: His guy? Uh-huh.

BRANDON: But we're really early in the cycle. We'll see what happens as we get
further into it.

BARTIROMO: Really interesting stuff. Happy Thanksgiving.

BRANDON: Same to you.

BARTIROMO: Happy early holiday to you.

BRANDON: Thank you.

BARTIROMO: Dave, thank you so much for joining us.

BRANDON: You bet, Maria. Appreciate it.

BARTIROMO: Dave Brandon.

We're hearing a lot of policy talk on the campaign trail on combating terrorism
and keeping our country safe.

Which candidate's strategy is actually resonating most with voters? Our panel
will begin right there as we look ahead on SUNDAY MORNING FUTURES. Stay with us.

SHAWN: This is a FOX News alert. Hello, everyone, I'm Eric Shawn.

Chilling new details emerging this morning in the Colorado Springs Planned
Parenthood shooting. Law enforcement sources say the suspect, 57-year-old Robert
Lewis Dear, mentioned "no more baby parts" after his arrest following the
hours-long rampage. And they say he expressed anti-abortion and anti-government
views in later interviews. Dear is due in court on Monday.

Meanwhile, as police comb his residences for more evidence, neighbors described
Dear as an "oddball" and a loner who lived off the grid, drifting between
secluded cabins in North Carolina and an isolated RV you see there in Colorado.
All this as family and friends gather for a candlelight vigil, mourning the
University of Colorado police officer, Garrett Swasey, one of three victims of
the tragedy, remembering Swasey as a devoted father, church leader and former
national figure skating champion.

I'm Eric Shawn. Now back to SUNDAY MORNING FUTURES and Maria.

(MUSIC PLAYING)

BARTIROMO: Welcome back. Terrorism, national security, becoming top concerns
among registered voters in the wake of the horrific terrorist attacks across the
globe, in particular, Paris.

And GOP contenders on the campaign trail are making it priority number one.
Homing in on national security issues, so who is making the strongest case to
keep the U.S. safe and to defeat ISIS. Want to bring in our panel here

Ed Rollins is former principal White House advisor to President Reagan. He has
been a long-time strategist to business and political leaders. He is a FOX News
political analyst.

Hank Sheinkopf is a Democratic strategist who worked on the Clinton-Gore
campaign.

And Doug Heye is a former RNC communications director and former deputy chief of
staff of communications for ex-House majority leader, Eric Cantor.

Gentlemen, good to see you. Thank you so much for joining us.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you.

BARTIROMO: So as soon as the attacks happened in Paris, you saw an increased
concern and talk about national security. And interesting to note that Ted Cruz
started rising in the polls.

Do you think that's the reason, Ed Rollins?

ED ROLLINS, POLITICAL CAMPAIGN STRATEGIST: I think Ted Cruz is very articulate,
shows great strength. I think Trump also showed great strength and I think the
contrast given the president is perceived as very weak and I think to a certain
extent, those who want to be tough on this issue will basically do well for the
short term.

BARTIROMO: The effect is that a Reuters poll that showed that voters took to
address this and they said the top 2016 choices in terms of who is their choice
to address this is Secretary Clinton at 20 percent support -- Hank.

HANK SHEINKOPF, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: Look, she --

(CROSSTALK)

BARTIROMO: Followed by Trump.

SHEINKOPF: -- before she became the secretary of state, she was much more to the
center and even to the Right on defense related issues. She voted for the Iraq
War. She is benefitting from the climb the president is having and within their
own party and it makes her very formidable.

BARTIROMO: Now we just heard --

ROLLINS: She ran away from that Iraq war. That's one of the first things she's
done and did very recently so.

SHEINKOPF: Again, let's go back to what she will use in the campaign and what
history will show, because all politics is in the present tense. There is --

BARTIROMO: So wait, she was against the Iraq war or she was for Iraq war?

SHEINKOPF: She voted for the war. And then in discussions, she said the Iraq war
may not have been the smartest thing she ever voted for.

ROLLINS: She said it was the worst vote she ever made. She said it on the last
debate.

BARTIROMO: She said it was the worst vote she ever made.

What do you think, Doug?

DOUG HEYE, FORMER RNC COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR: Well, it's interesting to finally
see a poll that says that Hillary Clinton is trustworthy on anything. What we
have seen from Republicans is really two different sets here.

We have seen some specifics laid out from Ted Cruz, from Jeb Bush, Marco Rubio
certainly, talking about ground troops, talking about no-fly zones and then
we've seen the tough talk that really gets a lot of response and it's no
surprise that it comes from Trump and even from Ben Carson.

Ultimately we don't see much specifics from them. And that's where maybe they're
doing well in the polls for a week or two. But as we go closer and closer to
Iowa, they'll have to lay out some specifics on what they actually want to do.

BARTIROMO: Yes.

What kind of specifics do you think people want to hear about?

Because this whole idea of troops on the ground versus no troops on the ground
is, I think, the divider for people.

ROLLINS: It is a divider. And I think Republicans have been pretty much in sync
with most of the people in the Defense Department. We felt that we pulled out of
these wars too soon, we left 10,000 troops there that we basically wouldn't have
had all the problems that we're having today in Afghanistan and elsewhere.

And I think that that's going to be somewhat the line, that we need to put more
-- the president in his press conference last week, with his president,
basically made it very clear there are no more troops going there and that we'll
do -- we'll hold hands and we'll -- don't be afraid, we'll take care of you here
if they come here.

And I don't think that's enough. I think foreign affairs are going to be a very
significant issue long-term in this campaign.

BARTIROMO: And there are so many holes in the president's strategy, from whether
or not ground troops are needed to the fact that these airstrikes are not
hitting their target, Hank.

Is it -- does it surprise you that so many people are criticizing the
president's foreign policy and his strategy to defeat ISIS?

SHEINKOPF: Not surprising at all. It's not a good strategy. Whether the person
occupying the Oval Office is a Republican or a Democrat, the proper move today
would probably be to be much more broad-brushed, more broad strokes, have
meetings, talk about conferences, getting people together, creating some kind of
an alliance with all of our people in one place.

I mean, we recently had a Soviet airplane taken down by Turks, who are part of
the -- part of NATO.

What is his plan?

Getting everybody in one place and creating an alliance to fight ISIS and to
even begin talking about that would be smart.

BARTIROMO: Why is he not doing --

ROLLINS: He doesn't have to lead the alliance anymore. The truth of the matter
is he's lost his leadership position. And I think that's a very significant
thing. The U.S. president always been the leader of putting these coalitions
together.

(CROSSTALK)

SHEINKOPF: That's what I'm saying. He's lost that position, it is time to try to
reassert American strength.

BARTIROMO: Why is he doing this, Doug?

Why is he so adamant about even the refugee issue, without even taking five
minutes to look at it?

He said, we're not changing our strategy. We already have the strictest vetting
process. Meanwhile, we just heard from Peter King, who said we can't vet them.

HEYE: There has obviously been an illusionist and an arrogance to this foreign
policy. And we've heard it from our allies, all over the place. I've been in
meetings with leaders from the Middle East, where they say, not this strategy is
good or this strategy is bad, they say where is America, we need American
leadership now.

That's why you're -- politically, you're even seeing Hillary Clinton, President
Obama's former secretary of state, distance herself from Obama foreign policy.

And politically, it's a smart move for her to do.

BARTIROMO: Can she do that even though she was the steward of foreign policy,
Hank?

SHEINKOPF: Oh, yes, she can. Because Obama has absolutely made that possible by
creating this great void and division. And she will just jump into it. She's
already doing it.

BARTIROMO: Let's check in with Howie Kurtz. He's, right now, getting ready for
his own show in about 20 minutes, "Media Buzz."

Howie, good morning to you.

HOWARD KURTZ, FOX NEWS HOST, "MEDIA BUZZ": Good morning, Maria. This is the week
that some media outlets really started savaging Donald Trump after a couple of
misstatements and missteps. We'll look at why he seems simply impervious to
these kinds of journalistic assaults.

Also, my sit-down with Chris Christie on whether the media's coverage of the
Syrian refugee debate has been fair and whether the coverage of his own campaign
has been fair.

BARTIROMO: All right, we will see you in about 20 minutes, Howie. We will be
there. Thank you.

Top Republican donors, meanwhile, doling out some major cash to stop Donald
Trump, in fact. Why are so many in the GOP uniting to de-rail Donald Trump's
campaign? The panel on that when we look ahead, next, on SUNDAY MORNING FUTURES.

BARTIROMO: Welcome back. A new ad airing in Iowa and New Hampshire going after
Donald Trump right now. It is using Trump's own words to portray him as less
than presidential, but the source of the ad, not a Democrat, but a SuperPAC
supporting Ohio Governor John Kasich.

It's all part of a new effort from some Republican donors with links to several
presidential candidates to go after Donald Trump and keep the party's
presidential front-runner from winning the nomination.

We're with our panel today, Ed Rollins, Doug High (ph) and Hank Sheinkopf.

BARTIROMO: Doug, let me kick this off with you. Why do you think so many in the
GOP want Donald out, even though he's at the top of the polls?

HEYE: Frankly, his message scares a lot of Republicans who want to get re-
elected in the House, get re-elected in the senate.

As President Obama has said, remarks on refugees, it really helps ISIL's cause.
The reality is it also helps Donald -- or it helps Barack Obama's cause, Hillary
Clinton's cause, to castigate Republicans as being racist, insensitive to any
minorities.

And as we've seen Trump really get a lot of attention and not get scrutiny, it's
not surprising, as he's been leading the polls for so long that finally
somebody's going to come in and provide him with some real scrutiny in
blunt-force trauma fashion.

BARTIROMO: Yeah, I think that's really good analysis. You're right. Because this
whole refugee issue has divided a lot of people.

Hank, do you think we can vet refugees coming into the country properly?

SHEINKOPF: Do you think that Mars and Saturn will collide next week?

We're talking about places where there is no computer; there is no database. We
don't know who these people are. Ask the French if they're able to determine who
the people were that came...

BARTIROMO: So the answer is no?

SHEINKOPF: No, it's not possible.

BARTIROMO: So is the strategy "Let's put a halt to this program right now and
not let anybody in right now," do you think? Is that the right strategy?

SHEINKOPF: The strategy is probably for -- you're talking about the politics of
it?

BARTIROMO: Yeah.

SHEINKOPF: For the Republicans, it would be bad to be way up front banging that
message through. It's got to be more calculated, calmer rhetoric. And that's
probably why Donald Trump is being attacked so viciously. The rhetoric is too
hot; it makes the Republicans look like they're racists.

And, frankly, no one minds being a racist. They mind being found out. Nobody
wants to be found out here.

ROLLINS: I don't think anybody wants to be a racist...

(CROSSTALK)

HEYE: Well, I would also say this is where Paul Ryan has been critically
important for Republicans right now, given a measured, reasoned response,
talking about America's compassion, while also saying we need to sit back and
take a pause at this, not the rhetoric that we've seen from Trump or from
Carson. It's why 40 -- more than 40 Democrats joined him in his vote the week
before last.

BARTIROMO: That's true. That's true.

ROLLINS: And what's wrong -- what's wrong with a bill that says basically the
CIA director, the Homeland Security director, and the FBI director have to
basically sign off on the policies here?

I mean, I think that's very reasonable. Those are the people that are going to
have the responsibility when they get here.

Going back to the Trump, attacking Trump is a very foolish strategy. Everybody
who is voting for Trump knows all the negatives on him...

BARTIROMO: That's true, yeah.

(CROSSTALK)

ROLLINS: ... and the rest of it. Iowa doesn't like negative commercials, New
Hampshire less so. And at the end of the day, this is just going to be -- his
argument is "The establishment doesn't want me; I'm against the establishment
because I'm from you." And that's a very sound message. And I think that will
have more of an impact.

BARTIROMO: And as a result, he's already said, "Look, I" -- you know, he
suggested he may do an independent run.

ROLLINS: Well, that would be the death knell for the Republican Party. And I
don't think, at the...

BARTIROMO: Because that would divide the party and the election goes to Hillary,
is what you're saying.

(CROSSTALK)

BARTIROMO: That's very clear.

ROLLINS: All you need to do is take five, six points. It's going to be a very,
very close election, three or four points maximum. Either Bernie Sanders or
Trump taking three or four points away from a main candidate basically will tip
the balance the other way.

BARTIROMO: Well, I also think that people -- people will be upset with Trump if
he goes against his word. Didn't he sign something that says, "Look, I'm not
going to do an independent run"?

ROLLINS: Well, the danger he faces right now is, in New Hampshire, you basically
have to run as a Republican. You can't run as an independent. So any dialogue
about him running as an independent, basically, the secretary of state can say,
"Thank you very much, but you're an independent." You can't run as an
independent; you have to run as one of the parties, Democrat or Republican.

BARTIROMO: Hank, how do you see it?

HEYE: Listen, Trump is very important because, for the Democrats -- and they
want him to stay there as long as he can -- he is divisive; his rhetoric is too
hot, and it is -- creates all kinds of problems for the Republicans.

And they'd like him to stay there. The Republicans want him gone. Why? Calm the
thing down. And the party elders want to have some control over this, as they
always do.

BARTIROMO: Who's -- who's emerging as the leader away from Trump?

HEYE: Well, right now, we've seen an Iowa polling that suggests that Ted Cruz is
perfectly positioned, which shouldn't be surprising, in Iowa, with so many
evangelical voters.

BARTIROMO: Right.

HEYE: As Carson voters have gone away, they've largely, in Iowa, gone to Cruz.
Certainly, it would be possible with Trump as well, if he were to falter.

And that's one of the things about Iowa is you can make a lot of headlines, but
you have to organize on the ground; you need to get people to show up and stay
at those caucus sites.

ROLLINS: The only ones that really have a chance at this point of winning Iowa
would be -- Carson's now out; Carson is falling like a rock -- Trump can still
win it; Cruz has the best organization on the ground and one of the best
operatives. The guy that ran Joni Ernst's campaign is running his operation
there now. And Rubio could -- there's really three positions you come out of
there. If you win one of the first three positions, you can keep moving on and
do well.

But the big day is the March 1st, where we have over 500 delegates being picked
on March 1st.

BARTIROMO: And what are the catalysts for the Democrats right now?

SHEINKOPF: Keep doing -- Hillary's just got -- Hillary Clinton has got to do
what she's doing right now, move away from Obama's foreign policy. Bernie
Sanders has effectively said, "Well, you know, she's not so bad after all," so I
don't think he's in it. It's hard to see him in it and it's hard to see anybody
else in it. she's the one to watch.

And she can stand by, to some extent, and watch the Republicans kill each other,
which is what they're probably going to do.

BARTIROMO: And that's what she's hoping they do.

SHEINKOPF: That's what she's hoping they do and she prays every night,
certainly, that Donald Trump will continue doing what he does.

ROLLINS: But what she can't do is she can't get rid of her own negatives. She's
got a 30-year history of creating negatives. And over 60 percent of the country
doesn't think she's honest, including a vast majority of...

HEYE: It all depends who the Republicans nominate, whether she's the president
or not. It's got nothing do with her. They nominate someone who is crazy,
they're going to lose; she's going to win. It's simple.

BARTIROMO: Wow. All right. We'll take a short break. Speculation is growing,
meanwhile, that the Federal Reserve will finally raise interest rates next
month. How could it impact our economy and your money? We'll talk a look, next,
on SUNDAY MORNING FUTURES with our panel.

BARTIROMO: Welcome back. The Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee now saying
it is ready to raise interest rates next month. The meeting is on December 16th.
What will that mean for your money and the economy?

We're back with our panel, Ed Rollins, Doug Heye, and Hank Sheinkopf.

Before we get into the Federal Reserve, it is a big week next week. Let's go
through some of the events that people need to understand. The highway bill is
one.

ROLLINS: The highway bill still is not properly funded and you have to basically
work on that, and you have a temporary fix on that. You've got -- a lot of the
appropriations stuff is there. Obviously, there's a lot of discussion now with
the big merger between Pfizer and the Irish company...

BARTIROMO: Yeah, Allergan, right.

ROLLINS: ... and whether you basically have to have some ability to keep these
companies from doing this. And so my sense is you'll have a lot of rhetoric.
You've got a very short time frame. And I think there will be a lot of activity
in the House and the Senate.

(CROSSTALK)

BARTIROMO: And then there's a bill on the Syrian refugees.

ROLLINS: Right.

BARTIROMO: Yeah.

So what's your take on all of these things, Doug?

HEYE: Well, the House Appropriations Committee staff has been working all
weekend to make sure that we, kind of, forget that we've got a lot of things
coming up to keep the government open.

This is where Paul Ryan is going to be critical. He's had some really good weeks
for House Republicans. He's been an adult in a room that surely needs more
adults. If Paul Ryan's successful, I think House Republicans can move forward in
a direction that we haven't been able to do in a few years.

BARTIROMO: And, Hank, what do you see?

SHEINKOPF: I see that, in an election year, the highway bill is the most
important thing that people have to worry about, and not giving the Democrats
any populist issues to run on, like a version -- like talking about -- talking
about tax rules that just won't work or that make more money for rich people,
regardless of how some of us may feel. If they do that and they don't pass the
highway bill, it doesn't get funded appropriately, in states where it matters,
those things will have tremendous impact.

BARTIROMO: Actually, Secretary Clinton said last week she wanted to make it
harder for companies like Pfizer to leave, go to another country, acquire
another company, and actually pay lower taxes.

SHEINKOPF: That's a great argument. And, by the way, it goes to states where --
where Democrats and Republicans are going to be hard at work trying to kill each
other.

In the Midwest -- and this race will be won or lost, this presidential race,
probably, in the Heartland again -- those are places that are tax- sensitive and
road-sensitive.

BARTIROMO: Why...

ROLLINS: I think it's also a big test of McConnell. McConnell, basically, has
given the mantle up to Reid on many occasions, and now that you have Ryan, who's
obviously ascending, McConnell has to basically really get this stuff going
through...

BARTIROMO: I mean, rather than come out with new rules so that companies can't
leave America to go get a better tax rate, why not just attack tax reform?

Why not just change the tax code to lower corporate taxes? Why has this been so
difficult?

ROLLINS: Well, you should. And the truth of the matter, you probably would have
a bipartisan -- if Ryan would have stayed as chairman of the Ways and Means
Committee, I think it would have happened next year. He has to now try to push
it from the speaker's -- speaker's chair, which is a little more difficult.

SHEINKOPF: Not so simple in an election year.

BARTIROMO: Real quick on the Syrian refugee bill? What happens there?

HEYE: Well, we don't know. We don't know if the Senate's going to take it up.
But having it pass with such a broad bipartisan majority gives it some hope to
pass in the Senate. The question is, will they get to a veto-proof number?

BARTIROMO: Does it matter if the Federal Reserve raises interest rates next
month?

ROLLINS: It matters only to senior citizens, who have been without any kind of
interest increase for a long, long time. And that's going to become an important
political...

SHEINKOPF: He or she who is responsible for that, or are going to be tagged with
it is going to have a problem come the fall for their whole party.

BARTIROMO: If they don't raise rates?

SHEINKOPF: Correct.

HEYE: And, you know, it's like the old Frank Sinatra song, "I've heard that song
before." Every time the Fed meets, we hear, "This is the time they're going to
raise rates." Certainly, the market could afford 20, 25 basis points. But we
don't know if they're going to do it and if that will reduce uncertainty.

BARTIROMO: But you're right about seniors. I mean...

(CROSSTALK)

BARTIROMO: I mean, people can't even save money. You're not getting any money.

ROLLINS: We deal with Wall Street. There are so many people that are dependent
on their stock portfolio or their bonds or what have you, and they have had no
interest for years. And so my sense is that's going to become a more and more --
a bigger issue.

BARTIROMO: Yeah, for sure. And, in fact, a lot of the candidates are not loving
Janet Yellen right now and question whether or not they would reappoint her.

Still to come, the one thing to watch for the week ahead on SUNDAY MORNING
FUTURES, next.

BARTIROMO: I want to thank our wonderful panel. Thanks so much, gentlemen. I'm
Maria Bartiromo. I'll be back tomorrow on "MORNINGS WITH MARIA" on the Fox
Business Network.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 112901cb.252

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SHOW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            November 29, 2015 Sunday

                         SHOW: MEDIA BUZZ 11:00 AM EST

MEDIA BUZZ for November 29, 2015

BYLINE: Howard Kurtz

GUESTS: Matt Lewis, Susan Ferrechio, Simon Rosenberg, John Meacham, James Rosen,
Amy Argetsinger, Lola Oguinnaike, Chris Christie

SECTION: NEWS; International

LENGTH: 5690  words


HOWARD KURTZ, MEDIA BUZZ HOST: On the Buzz Meter this Sunday, Donald Trump
getting hammered by the media for his comments on Muslims, and what he says
happened on 9/11, for appearing to mock a disabled reporter, and for the rockets
he fires off on Twitter.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Are you aware that the liberal media and the Democratic Party
in general are trying to paint you as a racist. Are you aware of that?

DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I think so, but I think people know better
than that.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You come on night after night and defend no matter what
despicable inflammatory thing he says. It's Demagogy, and it's dangerous and
somebody is going to hurt some Muslim as a result of this hatred.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KURTZ: This as the New York Times and the Washington Post denounced Trump as a
racist, a liar, and a bully, and a top editor of the Daily Beast calls for a
boycott of his businesses. Are Trump's journalistic critics going too far?

Chris Christie on the media of the coverage, his new focus on -- and whether his
campaign is making a comeback.

CHRIS CHRISTIE, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I am not this for a book deal or a Fox
News show. I am in this to win President of the United States.

KURTZ: President Obama getting skewered for saying that the media needs to show
perspective on covering ISIS. Is that unfair?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Let me just sum up, on track, stay the course, 1,000 points
of light. Stay the course.

KURTZ: John (Inaudible) rushing to judgment. I'm Howard Kurtz and this is
MediaBuzz.

The New York Times editorial page is accusing Donald Trump of peddling racist
lies. The Washington Post says he's running an ugly campaign and the only way to
beat a bully is to stand up to him. And that's just the beginning. Trump spoke
of seeing thousands of people in New Jersey cheering as the twin towers came
down. No one has found any evidence of that. The Washington Post gave him four
Pinocchio's, but Trump claimed vindication after finding a 2001 story from that
paper, saying the far east were questioning several people in New Jersey for
allegedly holding parties on roof tops on 9/11.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: But fortunately somebody in the Washington Post wrote that and they'll
try to deny it. They'll probably say we made a mistake. I like that better,
because then I could show you how dishonest they are, but they'll find some
reason to deny it. They'll call it a typo.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KURTZ: Joining us now to examine the impact of the media assault on Trump, Matt
Lewis, Senior Contributor at the Daily Caller and a Columnist for the Week.
Susan Ferrechio, Chief Congressional Correspondent for the Washington Examiner,
and Simon Rosenberg, President of the New Democratic Network. Let's do a
lightning round here. Matt Lewis, do you think the New York Times, Washington
Post and other media outlets calling Trump a racist, a liar, a bully, has any
impact on his campaign.

MATT LEWIS, SENIOR CONTRIBUTOR AT THE DAILY CALLER: No. I think they're right,
and I think he is lying, but I don't think it matters. Because I think that it
actually maybe helps Trump. The people who support Trump think the -- it's a
back lash against political correctness. This plays into his hands actually.

KURTZ: So my next question to you, can there be a backlash on the media's part?
And can that actually end up helping Trump?

SIMON ROSENBERG, PRESIDENT OF THE NEW DEMOCRATIC NETWORK: Possible, but the
evidence so far is Trump is having a hard time growing beyond this core base he
has. If he's going to be President, he's got to get moderate Republicans,
Democrats, and you look at head-to-head polling with Hillary Clinton right now,
and he's doing the worst. There is evidence it may by working to fire up his
troops, but not working with the broader electorate that he needs to win the
election.

KURTZ: Susan Ferrechio, let me read a couple of tweets that are put up by Noah
Shatman, the Executive Editor of the Daily Beast. Another one six month ago,
8,000 racist moments later -- I guess that's an exact number -- that's no longer
feasible -- a top editor at a website calling for a boycott.

SUSAN FERRECHIO, CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT FOR THE WASHINGTON EXAMINER:
Some probably love that tweet.

KURTZ: Why so?

FERRECHIO: Because it's a liberal-leaning kind of online publication. That's who
they attract, who they want to be logging on and reading. It's quick bait, as
they say, but you know, it's migrating from journalism into activism, so you
have to question he's running the Daily Beast and now he's calling for somebody
who's staying at a Trump motel. That's activism, not journalism.

KURTZ: Sure smells like activism to me. This guy is obviously a top editor and
Avalon, who worked for Rudy Giuliani in the past -- he's not a Trump fan,
either. All right, so Trump has said repeatedly he's not backing down, that he
saw thousands of Arabs in New Jersey celebrating on 9/11 on television, he says.
No one else has found the footage. State official say it's not true, but he
cites the paragraph about whether there was an investigation of some that he's
right.

LEWIS: You're entitled to your own opinion. You are not entitled to your own
facts. Donald Trump, it's hard to hold him accountable, because he has this
reality distortion filter. He's going to say I saw it. There are thousands of
people cheering. It doesn't happen, and he is lying, and I think it's a
responsibility of the media to hold politicians accountable even if they are
Republican or conservative, even if liberal bias does exist.

KURTZ: Simon, what except this story alive is this piece in the Washington Post,
in 2001, which by the way didn't say the reporter had seen it, just an
investigation that said they found nothing about this allegation. And a reporter
who suffering from a congenital condition which limits the use of his arms, a
great reporter and a great guy, Trump is -- and you've all seen this footage, it
appeared to many people he was mocking the disability.

ROSENBERG: We have discussed on air here that Donald Trump knows what he's doing
and pretty talented. I think this is a huge mistake. He's kept the story alive.

KURTZ: Maybe he wants to keep the story alive.

ROSENBERG: Yeah, what he's been effective at is he understood he can get in
trouble and the next day reports move on, and they -- there is a new news story
and so it all just evaporates and goes into the collective memory of the media
hole. I think he kept what was a negative story around for days, that he's not
perfect. This is a mistake.

KURTZ: Well, Trump says that he didn't remember -- it didn't seem he was backing
off the story, and again he didn't say hundreds or thousands, some number of
individuals. He really -- Trump got into it this morning with Chuck Todd on Meet
the Press. Let's take a brief look at that.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This didn't happen in New Jersey. There were plenty of
reports, and you're...

TRUMP: Chuck, it did happen in New Jersey. I have hundreds of people that agree
with me.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You're running for President of the United States. Your words
matter. Truthfulness matters.

TRUMP: Chuck, take it easy. Just play cool.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

FERRECHIO: I really -- I disagree. I think Trump has won this round. He's won
this round. It looked like my god, he's finally gone too far. I am not sure
Trump can go too far. If you look at the reaction, like what he just said, I
have got all kinds of calls and tweets who reported the same thing. The people
who support me say there were thousands of people. So he's winning, telling
Chuck Todd to play it cool, because Chuck Todd is getting so emotional trying to
get Trump on this, but he couldn't.

KURTZ: Trump says he wants an apology from New York Times.

FERRECHIO: That's right. He turns it back on them, punching back twice as hard.

KURTZ: Do you agree in pure television terms if he's telling Chuck, calm down,
or is Chuck Todd doing what journalists should do, and trying to pin him down?

LEWIS: I think both. I think Chuck Todd is doing the right thing, because the
problem is I think our culture has changed. It used to be -- especially if you
were a family values conservative that mocking somebody with a physical
deformity would be seen as beneath the dignity of somebody running for
President. I don't know that our culture cares that much about it anymore.

KURTZ: What about Trump -- and Bill O'Reilly chided him on this, re- tweeting
reportedly bogus crimes statistics, and Trump says I can't check everything and
it's a re-tweet.

ROSENBERG: He's trying to change the rules.

(CROSSTALK)

ROSENBERG: He has already changed the rules.

FERRECHIO: It's already happened.

ROSENBERG: He as already changed the rules. We will know whether this experiment
is effective. I still think there's a lot of evidence that it actually will not
play well over time, but we'll see.

KURTZ: Ben Carson initially was asked about this, did you know about Muslims in
New Jersey. Not in the middle east, celebrating on 9/11. With Megyn Kelly he
said this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You admit to a lack of caution in answering that question?

BEN CARSON, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Yeah. I felt we were just talking about the
fact that Muslims were inappropriately celebrating. I didn't know they had an
agenda behind the question.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KURTZ: The agenda -- what he was asked -- did you see this? Yes. Did you see it
in New Jersey? Yes.

FERRECHIO: I thought it was fine. I thought his walk-back was final, and the
biggest problem is his foreign policy experience.

KURTZ: He went to Jordan this weekend, kind of shrouded in secrecy, but we do
get pictures of Dr. Carson meeting with refugees and of course is on several
Sunday morning shows.

FERRECHIO: Sure. He needed to bolster his foreign policy credentials. To connect
that with Trump, we spend all this time playing gotcha with the media with Trump
and not nailing him down on substance. He is the front- runner, and we're net
doing that.

KURTZ: Just briefly, the terrible shooting in Colorado, three people dead, one a
police officer. First liberal Huffington Post and now the Washington Post
questioning why only three Republican candidates put on any statements, first
Ted Cruz and later Jeb Bush and John Kasich. Any statements regardless of what
are your views on abortion, expressing sympathy for the victims. Is that a fair
point to draw out?

LEWIS: They're running for President. I think it would be quicker.

FERRECHIO: Just say, I am real sorry about what happened. These candidates are
very concerned. It's treacherous, on Meet the Press this morning Donald Trump
was asked about it over and over where I believe Chuck Todd tried to connect his
favoritism of the videos with perhaps this outcome in Colorado, and he wouldn't
do it. I think that's what these other candidates are worried about.

KURTZ: It's always dangerous with if politicians that doesn't spout been that
leads to violence.

Let me get a break here. You can email us, and ahead, Chris Christie on one
pundit's conclusion that he's battled his way back to respectability.

But when we come back, conservative commentators hammering President Obama
saying the press needs to show some perspective in covering the war on terror.

KURTZ: President Obama's taking some heat, especially on Fox, for these comments
about how terrorism should be covered.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, U.S. PRESIDENT: The media needs to help in this. I just want to
say it, but one of the things that have to happen is how we report on this has
to maintain perspective and not -- you know, empower in any way these terrorist
organizations or elevate them in ways that make it easier to them to recruit or
make them stronger.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So therefore we should play down these stories? Really come
on, what do you say?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Hi hit the bottom of the barrel.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: President Obama now sounding more like a community organizer
than a commander in chief, as he tries to defend his approach by blaming the
media for the disastrous results of his policies. Mr. Obama tried to blame the
media for empowering the Islamic state.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KURTZ: Matt, do you think President Obama was blaming the media or saying...

LEWIS: Not at all. I think it's an overreaction and twisting what it sounded
like he said to me. First of all, the media has been known to stoke fear. If all
I did was watch the news, I wouldn't leave the house, they also glamorize
occasionally villains. We saw that with the Boston bomber on the cover of the
Rolling Stone. He's encouraging them to be responsible, what's wrong with that?

KURTZ: White House official told me that of course, these organizations was
going to make their own judgments, but the President was commenting on whether
people are fearful of another terrorist attack. It's no question that it feels
like the press went way over on a few cases of Ebola.

FERRECHIO: I think our job is to cover events truthfully, accurately, nothing
more. You can't listen to a President tell you to alter or shape your coverage.
Our role is to cover it as we see it. Obviously, the news has been focused on
terrorism, on his foreign policy, and it's been unflattering for him. I think
that's why he's talking about changing the coverage.

KURTZ: Perhaps, but when there are days and days of coverage whether there will
be an attack over thanksgiving weekend, no credible evidence, cite the
authorities. Would it have been the same media coverage if George W. Bush had
asked media not to scare people?

ROSENBERG: Or the color-coded system? I think what he's reminding is that the
goal of terror is to scare people, and to leverage the fear to make it -- to
make a single attack in Paris even more consequential all throughout the world,
and to have perspective. He's reminding everybody we have to make sure we
understand -- look, we've had three times as many Americans in mass shootings as
died in the Paris attacks, so making sure we understand the relative strength of
the attack and not exaggerate is a fair -- I think a responsible thing.

KURTZ: We debate this all the time and all the volume we use. Thank you all for
being here, Simon Rosenberg, Susan Ferrechio, and Matt Lewis.

Up next, James Rosen on whether the media's coverage from the Paris attacks
differs from the atmosphere during the Bush/Cheney administration.

And later, even the snarky website Gawker is getting into campaign coverage,
does that meet gossip is over?

KURTZ: James Rosen was talking around the office about the coverage of the
recent terror attacks and whether it resembled what went on during the
Bush/Cheney administration. So we had a conversation prompting in part by his
book Cheney one on one, a candid conversation with America's most controversial
statesman.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

KURTZ: James Rosen, welcome.

JAMES ROSEN, AUTHOR: Thank you, Howie, great to be with you.

KURTZ: In the wake of 9/11, Dick Cheney was going on the television. But here's
the media question -- in the coverage now, do you see echoes of that period
after 9/11?

ROSEN: Sure. There's always of course, the objectivity question that circulated
in 9/11, and now. One difference I see between the debates then about coverage
and today's debates, we used to wrestle with whether or not to show the latest
video message from Osama Bin Laden. That has by and large been decided, no,
we'll just show still photographs and that sort of thing, but now that decision
has been rendered moot, by the media where you can find the gruesome videos.

KURTZ: So the media's gatekeeper is done, the people can see it more readily.
And the press, could we be objective, meaning was there fervor in the country,
or fear, then/now, for those who want to march to war?

ROSEN: And that is a tough line for journalists is it not? Journalists like to
maintain a pose whereby they are disinterested. Whichever horse hears the race,
as long as it's an exciting race to cover. But when the story is the fate of
your own nation, when it's come under devastating terrorist attack, that's a
hard one to maintain interest in the outcome.

KURTZ: Of course, the goal then is to at least have a multiplicity of voices on
the debate. So I remember these great media debates a decade ago, about every
increase in chatter, versus concern about are we unnecessarily scaring people?
Do you see that -- are we still walking that tight rope?

ROSEN: We are, but first quarter, I recently did a story for a special report
about Bret Baier that new alert system five years ago, and guess what we found
when we looked at it? That new system hasn't given the American people one
single alert. There are no tweets on this advisory Twitter page, for example. So
the question becomes -- is the government sometimes doing too little to keep
Americans informed?

KURTZ: Right, but back in those days, when the memories of 9/11 were so fresh,
you know, every approaching of a holiday or major sports event there had be new
possible terror alert, and most of those have turned out to be false alarms. The
Paris attacks were a wake-up call about the evil capability of ISIS. My question
is, is there a danger now, as then, that we unwittingly serve as a conduit for
propaganda if we are constantly peppering people with story alerts that could
frighten them.

ROSEN: Here's the bottom line. We report the news. If ISIS issues a threat in a
video, we report it, but then you go to the authorities, and the FBI and DHS
says there had no credible threat. So you report them both, we report and let
the viewers decide.

KURTZ: That sounds suspiciously like a slogan. In the seconds we have remaining,
what was your takeaway from spending all these hours with Dick Cheney, who still
speaks out quite frequently against the Obama administration?

ROSEN: If you love or hate Dick Cheney, you're going to love this book. I spent
ten hours with the man across three days, and I have never heard him open up the
way he did in these ten hours, about his childhood, his spiritual faith in
Christ, the Presidents and foreign leaders he's worked with, and 9/11 and Iraq,
where he was very candid in admitting some mistakes to me.

KURTZ: James Rosen thanks very much for joining.

(END VIDEO CLIP) KURTZ: Tweets are pouring about our discussion about Donald
Trump and the media. Terry Kershaw I think there maybe a stupidity bias and
honesty bias.

All right coming up, my sit-down with Chris Christie on whether the press is
being fares in covers the Syrian refugee crisis, and his attempted campaign
comeback.

And later, how on earth did author John Meacham get George Bush to open up to
him and share his private diaries?

KURTZ: Some of the pundits were starting to write off Chris Christie, but the
campaigns new focus on terrorism is starting to change his media narrative. And
just today he got the coveted endorsement of the New Hampshire Union Leader, the
New Jersey Governor sat down here in Studio One.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

KURTZ: Chris Christie, welcome.

CHRIS CHRISTIE, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Happy to be here.

KURTZ: Front page of the New York Times this week -- Christie's -- are you
willing to acknowledge a new respect for the newspaper's fairness and judgment?

CHRISTIE: No, sir.

KURTZ: Said nice things about you.

CHRISTIE: They did. I think they're finally reporting it accurately.

KURTZ: Could it be said that you are in some fashion playing on the fears
aroused by the Paris attacks?

CHRISTIE: No, it's acknowledges fears. I was in New Hampshire this weekend. My
town hall meeting, every question was on national security.

KURTZ: So for somebody running for high office, you have to just acknowledge
them, but address them?

CHRISTIE: Absolutely.

KURTZ: As Governor you said you don't want any Syrian refugees in New Jersey.
This is a very emotional issue, do you think the pressure approach to this issue
has balanced or are the media largely portraying people like you as heartless?

CHRISTIE: The latter. They have no responsibility for protecting the lives of
the people of New Jersey or this country. My test is very simple. The FBI
director has said before congress there's no effective way to vet these people.
That's the beginning and end of the conversation for me because American
national security and homeland security has to be first and foremost.

KURTZ: Over any humanitarian concerns?

CHRISTIE: Yes, sir.

KURTZ: There is no question that the Paris attacks changed the tone of this
campaign. Ted Cruz wants to only admit Christian refugees. Is that a problem?

CHRISTIE: It is a problem. The problem is we shouldn't be admitting any.

KURTZ: You don't even get to the religious question.

CHRISTIE: I don't.

KURTZ: One of Ben Carson's foreign policy says he doesn't know about the Middle
East. Is that a problem for Ben Carson?

CHRISTIE: Sure.

KURTZ: You can expand if you want.

CHRISTIE: You want quick answers, you better be ready to answer these questions.

KURTZ: Does Donald Trump go too far with some of his harsh rhetoric?

CHRISTIE: Of course he does, but Donald goes too far on anything. So this is not
something that anybody should be surprised with. That's the way Donald speaks,
that's the way he's always spoken, whether he's firing somebody on the
Apprentice or whether he's running for President.

KURTZ: I would ask a broader question. It seems you are going out of your way
not to criticize your Republican rivals, understandably you're keeping your
ammunition trained on Hillary Clinton and President Obama, but I wonder if it's
because you feel like maybe I have an outside shot of winning the nomination and
I don't want to rough anybody else.

CHRISTIE: No, it's because I want to beat Hillary Clinton. That's the adversary
we have to beat to get to the White House.

KURTZ: But for you to face off against Hillary Clinton, you have a lot of other
people in this race in your party that you have to beat. It seems to some people
-- you're a bit of a political brawler, but like you're pulling punches.

CHRISTIE: No, sometimes you need the driver, and sometimes you need the pitching
wedge. That's called strategy. It's not called pulling your punches.

KURTZ: What's your strategy?

CHRISTIE: To make myself the person that the people in the Republican Party
trust the most to beat Hillary Clinton.

KURTZ: But inevitably it's a game of compare and contrast. So would you say
you're passing up opportunities to take on some of the people who are way ahead
of you in the polls right now?

CHRISTIE: No, I don't think so. While people are standing on the stage, they
don't need you to do it for them.

KURTZ: I have heard you talk about the executive experience of governor. Is it
frustrating, three out of race, most running at 3 percent or 5 percent, is it
frustrating for you that voters seem not to place a high value on having run a
state?

CHRISTIE: No, it's pollees. There are no voters yet. No will vote until February
1st in Iowa caucus.

KURTZ: So you're saying politicians tend to love polls when they're in the top
tier.

CHRISTIE: Sure. They love polls when they're in first. I understand that, but
the fact is everyone will acknowledge that 60 percent to 70 percent of the
people polled say they will or could change their mind. So I am not too worried
about that. I am still in the mind changing business.

KURTZ: Chris Lizza said you have fought your way back to respectable.

CHRISTIE: No, my goal is to win. I think I have always been respectable. I
appreciate his left-handed compliment, but I think our campaign has always been
issue-driven and competitive. I am not in this for a book deal or Fox News show.
I am in this to win and be President of the United States.

KURTZ: Of course, thank you very much for joining us.

CHRISTIE: I appreciate it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KURTZ: That Union Leader endorsement used to be huge in New Hampshire, but keep
in mind only a couple of the politicians backed by the paper or Republicans I
should have ended up winning the nomination.

After the break, former Newsweek Editor John Meacham on why he and other
journalists love to kick around Presidents, and how he changed his mind after
spending time with George Herbert Walker Bush.

KURTZ: John Meacham made plenty of news with his biography, and in the former
Newsweek Editor get the -- we sat down with the author of Destiny in Power, the
American odyssey of George Herbert Walker Bush.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

KURTZ: John Meacham, welcome.

JOHN MEACHAM, FORMER NEWSWEEK EDITOR: Thank you.

KURTZ: The media verdict on George H.W. Bush at the time, great job with the
Gulf War, broke the no in talks pledge, therefore failed President, and was that
short sighted by the media?

MEACHAM: Not short-sighted by the media,

KURTZ: Did that feel that way to you at the time?

MEACHAM: Sure. I had sort of the Dana Carvey view of him in my head. It was only
after meeting hem and then the passage of time we can come to better historical
judgment. There's a rule that it takes 20 to 25 years after an administration
that you can judge it whole. I think that's true.

KURTZ: From your book, 1987 Newsweek eluded to rumors that he an affair by a
longtime aide. George W. Bush asked his dad about the rumors and then did what?

MEACHAM: He called Howard Fineman, Evan Thomas, and the answer to the big- A is
NO, and that shut it down.

(CROSSTALK)

KURTZ: But his parents...

MEACHAM: Mrs. Bush was apparently angry or upset. She thought that it would feed
the story. Then Vice President Bush said in his diary that he worried that
Barbara was right, but the parents was wrong. It put the story to rest.

KURTZ: Given that Bush's '92 unofficial slogan was annoy the media, reelect
Bush, but before you got there, 1987 ran that famous cover, calling him a wimp.
How did you persuade Bush 41 to give all these interviews and share the
documents?

MEACHAM: Good question. I found him to be a much more complicated and
interesting figure. My argument to him was that this was my book-writing part of
my life. You're a multi-tasker too, you know this. There was a lot of question,
because I was coming from the republic of Newsweek...

KURTZ: What would you have done if you had wanted to take back or asked you not
to use some of what he said?

MEACHAM: I was simply going to note parenthetically that whatever response he
had had.

KURTZ: Give him the chants to revise or...

MEACHAM: Just extend.

KURTZ: In some of the reaction for some of the -- there was perhaps an
implication that you, in interviewing a man who's now 91 years old perhaps took
advantage of him. How do you feel about that?

MEACHAM: I don't think there's any trust to that, whatever. He made these
comments in '08. Anyone who knew George Bush knew in 2008 he was firing on all
pistons. So I think this accurately reflects his view of Cheney, Brumsfeld and
his son's rhetoric.

KURTZ: (Inaudible) that you fall in love with your subjects?

MEACHAM: Sure. That was my great worry about doing a living President, was that
I wouldn't be able to throw a punch.

KURTZ: A very charming guy in his life.

MEACHAM: Yes, any President there's a charm there. But part of the ethos he
created, which was make the historical judgments, I found it easier, much easier
than I expected to say what I thought.

KURTZ: Isn't it also true that we as journalists who have daily deadlines,
minute by minute Twitter deadlines often rush to judgments about Presidents,
politics based on incomplete information?

MEACHAM: Oh my god, yes, that's the reflex to kick them in the shins. It's I
think one of the perils of journalism right now. Everyone's a journalist, right?
Just because we have the ability to speak all the time doesn't mean we always
have something worth saying. That's a discipline that all of us should impose
more often.

TRUMP: You're speaking at somebody who is perhaps a reformed sinner?

MEACHAM: Not reformed. Absolutely a sinner on this, but one of the interesting
things was seeing how this culture was taking shape in the Bush 41 years. But
CNN's political talk shows are growing. Rush Limbaugh is becoming more of a
force. Limbaugh endorses Pat Buchanan, so what does Bush do? He actually invites
Limbaugh over to the White House to spend the night, and carries a suitcase for
him. That shut down Limbaugh. Suddenly Limbaugh was introducing Bush at campaign
events. But the 24-hour cycle really was -- and his diary is full of remarks
about how the press drives him crazy. Any President who says they don't read the
notices is not telling the truth.

TRUMP: John Meacham thanks very much for joining us.

MEACHAM: Thanks, Howie.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: Next on MediaBuzz, Gawker dropping the gossip to cover the 2016 campaign
and going after other Donald Trump and other Republican candidates. Stay with
us.

KURTZ: Gawker, which pioneered a more steaming level of online gossip, is now
reverting itself as a political website to define the deeper meaning here
(Inaudible).

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

KURTZ: Lola Oguinnaike, does Gawker getting out of the media and cultural gossip
business mean that gossip is now -- very 2009.

LOLA OGUINNAIKE, ARISE TV ANCHOR: It does mean that gossip is 2009, but it also
mean that's the election is far more interesting than anything else happening in
the media landscape today. So of course, they've decided to throw their hat into
the election ring because what bigger story is there than election 2016?

KURTZ: It's huge, to quote somebody part of that campaign.

OGUINNAIKE: I think I know that guy.

KURTZ: Gawker specialized in snark. It pledged to become 20 percent nicer when
it apologized outing a executive. Do you think that's a factor in this evolution
to politics?

AMY ARGETSINGER, WASHINGTON POST STYLE SECTION EDITOR: Snark is not going away.
This is what internet content was built on over the past 10 or 12 years, however
it's gotten harder to make money off of snark. Social media has changed the
dynamic. People may love to read bitchy news stories, but they want to look like
nice people as far as what they share. That's why you saw the rise of all these
inspirational stories, puppy videos, and things like that. So Gawker is
basically doubling down on the one area where it's still ok to be snarky, where
it's still profitable to be snarky, and that's politics.

KURTZ: Lola, thanks to Twitter and Snapchat and a million blogs it seems like
gossip, snark whatever you want to call is everywhere. Is there less of a market
niche for it?

OGUINNAIKE: Snark is ubiquitous and you can thank Gawker for that. But people do
want to be liked. They're concerned with their followers, and what is more
likely to generate more likes, more followers, posting or forwarding or making
something perceived as nice go viral. There's not big business in people
individually being seen as mean or as bullies.

ARGETSINGER: The exception, of course, is with political coverage, political
stories because that's where you see people really forming these tribal
identities on Facebook where you will still see people getting into big fights
with friends and relatives. So I think that's something where - - you know,
Gawker is not new to politics. Some other bigger hits have been in the political
realm, the Rob Ford story out of Toronto, the Craig's List congressman.

(CROSSTALK)

KURTZ: What about the fact that there are by my count roughly six billion
websites devoted to politics.

OGUINNAIKE: Yes. But the thing that Gawker has is name recognition. There is a
brand identity, and you understand that when you go to Gawker you are going to
get snark, but this time they will be laser-focused on politics. If you want
more than just the facts man and you want your politics with a heavy dose of
snark, go to Gawker.

KURTZ: Gawker doesn't particularly like Hillary Clinton but Gawker said GOP
candidates would be apocalyptic disastrous especially Donald Trump.

ARGETSINGER: Trump has been very good business for Gawker. If you want an
example, this is where snark lives these days, every time they write about
Donald Trump they have a new thing that describes him. This week it's been human
dust ball Donald Trump, Republican candidate and pee-stained snow cone.

KURTZ: As somebody who made her living at this in the past...

OGUINNAIKE: There are magazines that have made entire industries of making fun
of Donald Trump. There would be no spy magazine for not for calling he names.
There is big business of making fun of Trump. I am sure Gawker figured it out.

KURTZ: Maybe Trump is the key.

OGUINNAIKE: He's the gift that keeps on giving.

(CROSSTALK)

KURTZ: Hope he stays in the campaign. Finally, Amy, again, you used to make your
living at this. The facts that -- do you think that gossip is just sort of
transmuting into new forms or do you think it's peaked?

ARGETSINGER: You know I think it's continuing to evolve on the web. People are
still figuring out what will get the clicks. Certainly, though, political news
is where a lot of the stuff lives. We got saturated with celebrity gossip. We
needed to move on.

KURTZ: Social media, everybody can now be a professional gossiper, Amy
Argetsinger and Lola Oguinnaike, thanks very much for joining us.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KURTZ: And next we try something new, your questions from Facebook.

KURTZ: Time for your Facebook questions. Kat we actually are more informed or
simply more opinionated? No question all the opinion mongers on cable news have
helped fuel the polarization of the news. But we're also in a wired world. More
news and information is at your fingertips. Here is a question from Marcy. If
the media stopped covering Trump's every cough and sneeze it would force him to
spend his own money on advertising which would end this media circus. How hard
would that be? Things are better. We only cover every cough, not every sneeze.
You seem to indicate we're -- Trump is a master, much of the coverage is
negative, although we said earlier I think that helps him. He makes himself
endlessly available for interviews but some of his rivals might take a page from
his playbook.

That's it for this edition of MediaBuzz. I'm Howard Kurtz, hope you're having a
good thanksgiving weekend. Check out Fox's new Sirius XM station, 24/7 headlines
where I do a daily media minute. We're back here next Sunday 11:00 and 5:00
Eastern. Look forward to seeing you then with the latest buzz.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 112901cb.269

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            November 30, 2015 Monday

                 SHOW: YOUR WORLD WITH NEIL CAVUTO 4:15 PM EST

Interview With Former U.S. Senate Communications Director Marc Morano

BYLINE: Neil Cavuto

GUESTS: Marc Morano

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 837  words


NEIL CAVUTO, HOST: All right, now, in the meantime, in Paris right now, in the
middle of all of this, you would naturally think they are like stink on you know
what on following anything having to do with terror, right, that that would be
their full, central focus. But you would be wrong.

For 150 leaders from around the world gathering in Paris, it has nothing to do
with terror, but with climate change.

And to the Climate Depot`s Marc Morano, who says that is what we call awkward
timing.

(LAUGHTER)

CAVUTO: Now, Marc has a film coming out, "The Climate Hustle." And it is making
its big debut in France at the Sorbonne, I believe.

Very good for you, Marc. Thank you for coming.

MARC MORANO, FORMER U.S. SENATORIAL DIRECTOR OF COMMUNICATIONS: Thank you.

CAVUTO: Why did you choose France for the debut?

MORANO: Well, this is going to be in the middle of all the action, the United
Nations climate summit.

This is the biggest summit in at least six years, where the world leaders are
going to try to alter the course of human civilization through the Earth`s
climate. And they`re -- and so we`re going to have a red carpet premiere, Neil,
right...

CAVUTO: Wow.

MORANO: ... in the middle of downtown Paris.

And there`s going to be a lot of protesters with nowhere else to go. So, we hope
-- we hope this goes off. But we`re going to have a -- founder of Greenpeace and
a lot of other people showing up live at the red carpet.

And this film is going to turn the tables on the entire global warming movement.
We interviewed people who used to be believers in manmade global warming and
have now grown skeptical, Nobel Prize-winning scientists, U.N. scientists. So,
it`s going to go right at the heart of the Paris climate negotiations.

CAVUTO: A lot of people are going back and forth as to why to hold these
negotiations being right after the Paris attacks.

I can understand giving the benefit of the doubt to the president of France, the
president of the United States to say, well, if we canceled the thing, it would
look bad in the eyes of the terrorists.

MORANO: Sure.

CAVUTO: But to continue it without mentioning terrorism, although they did at
the outset, it sends a very different message. It almost makes the terrorists
think, are you serious?

MORANO: Yes, the terrorists might be upset. Hey, why aren`t you paying attention
to us?

Well, what they have, even more absurd, is -- I can understand the notion of
going forward no matter what.

CAVUTO: Right. Right.

MORANO: We won`t let terrorists deter it.

But we have voices, including CNN and including the administration and others,
who are claiming that global warming will solve terrorism somehow or lessen
terrorism or make -- if we solve global warming and lower CO2 levels, the carbon
dioxide in the atmosphere, the Middle East may turn peaceful, as if the Middle
East used to be a peaceful place until the last 50 years of carbon dioxide
emissions and industrialization.

They are missing the boat there.

CAVUTO: Yes. By the way, that has only recently become a powder keg, right, the
last few centuries not withstanding.

MORANO: That`s right.

CAVUTO: But I want to ask you about this other goal that they`re pushing, where
the United States is largely footing the bill, this idea to control the
temperature rise across the planet to two degrees Celsius.

MORANO: Right. Right.

CAVUTO: That would be about 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, but to forcibly bring it
down through these actions, a lot easier said than done. Right?

MORANO: Yes.

We had one U.K. scientist, Philip Stott, who said there are quite literally
hundreds of factors governing global climate. For the United Nations to pick one
politically selected factor, carbon dioxide, and then try to tweak it at the
margins and then come up with some temperature goal 50, 100 years in into the
future is akin to scientific nonsense.

And you could call it modern day witchcraft, if you will. We know, Neil, from
the Climategate e-mails that this two-degree limit that the United Nations has
been parroting about was -- quote -- "plucked from thin air" -- unquote --
according to U.N. scientist Phil Jones.

That is what was revealed in those e-mails that were released in 2009. So we
know that even U.N. scientists don`t by this two-degree limit. It`s not based on
science. It`s a political goal to get countries to join in, so they can
entertain this idea of a tipping opinion. You must act, or else the climate is
going to get very bad. We can protect you from the climate if you sign onto this
treaty.

CAVUTO: And I find it interesting, although much of the world is Celsius, that
we quote it Celsius, because two degrees, you say, oh, what is the big deal,
when it`s almost four degrees Fahrenheit.

MORANO: That`s right.

CAVUTO: But, again, which is the extent of my knowledge on this stuff, what`s
the big deal, right?

All right, very good having you again. Good luck with the film. I`m sure the
Oscar nominations await.

MORANO: That`s right.

(LAUGHTER)

MORANO: Thank you, Neil.

CAVUTO: Very good seeing you.

MORANO: Appreciate it.

CAVUTO: All right.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 113001cb.140

DOCUMENT-TYPE: INTERVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            November 30, 2015 Monday

                 SHOW: YOUR WORLD WITH NEIL CAVUTO 4:25 PM EST

Interview With Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense K.T. McFarland

BYLINE: Neil Cavuto

GUESTS: K.T. McFarland

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 501  words


NEIL CAVUTO, HOST: What is also incredible is now the leader of Germany and the
leader of Syria, different characters, they, agreed on this much. A lot of those
refugees who made their way into Europe from Syria, well, a lot of them are bad
guys. In fact, a lot of them are ISIS, in fact, more than you know.

To a woman who was on this long before anyone I know, K.T. McFarland, FOX News
national security analyst.

That`s Bashar al-Assad saying that. That`s Angela Merkel of Germany saying that,
a host of others saying that, K.T., saying that it`s very likely many slipped
through the cracks and are in Europe as we speak.

What do you make of it?

K.T. MCFARLAND, FORMER U.S. DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE: Well, I think
it`s not just that.

I mean, let`s just say it`s 1 percent, so it`s million refugees coming and 1
percent are bad guys. That`s still a lot of bad guys. That`s 1,000 bad guys.

But look what happens. And it doesn`t take any kind of a fortuneteller to
predict what is going to happen over the winter. You have got thousands of
refugees, hundreds of thousands of refugees. They`re going to the refugee
centers. They`re going into shelters. Some of them are right now sleeping in the
fields.

What happens when the weather starts getting cold? There are no jobs for these
people. There`s potentially no organized housing. There`s not going to be a lot
of social benefits, because a lot of the benefits will have been used up.

There just -- there isn`t a -- it`s not a bottomless pit for this. So, when they
come, they come to Europe, they don`t have anyplace to stay. It`s going to be a
cold winter. They will become breeding grounds and easy pickings for recruiters.

And they`re already in -- in Europe right now. So it`s not like you have got to
smuggle anybody in addition. These are already people who are going to be in
pretty desperate straits by a cold winter and they will be easy pickings for
recruiters.

CAVUTO: So, the irony will be to those Western powers that have held become on
bringing them in, that very behavior, maybe for very justifiable reasons,
security reasons, is actually going to make the situation worse.

MCFARLAND: It`s going to make it worse.

I talked to some -- a leading international businessmen who is headquartered in
Paris, and he said that what is happening is that, as the Europeans countries,
as part of this Schengen agreement -- that`s the agreement whereby once you get
into Europe, you can travel freely -- there are no borders.

Once you get into Europe, then you can move freely around the entire region. But
if the European, Northern European countries send people home and say, look, we
don`t have room for you anymore, where do they go? They go back to where they
first entered Europe, which is the Baltics -- in the Balkans.

And that could become the new hot pot, the new, you know, chaotic place in the
next six months, is in the Balkans.

CAVUTO: All right, K.T., thank you very much, I think.

MCFARLAND: Thank you.

CAVUTO: K.T. McFarland.

MCFARLAND: Yes.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 113002cb.140

DOCUMENT-TYPE: INTERVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            November 30, 2015 Monday

                 SHOW: YOUR WORLD WITH NEIL CAVUTO 4:43 PM EST

Black Rock Group - Senior Director Interview

BYLINE: Neil Cavuto

GUESTS: Lisa Boothe

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 709  words


NEIL CAVUTO, HOST: Well, we`re talking about money and what is serious or not.

In case you haven`t been watching, according to the Republicans at least -- and
we checked a lot of these numbers -- Hillary Clinton is now over a trillion
bucks when it comes to promises and proposals that she would enact if she became
president of the United States.

Lisa Boothe has been crunching the numbers herself and says a trillion...

LISA BOOTHE, SENIOR DIRECTOR, BLACK ROCK GROUP: Hi, Neil.

CAVUTO: ... might be a conservative figure, Lisa.

(LAUGHTER)

CAVUTO: But we should say everything from infrastructure support, to getting
people back to work, to reinvigorating health care and on and on, it`s going to
add up, and hence the criticism of Republicans certainly at the FOX Business
debate that the other party is all promises, and we`re the only one that wants
to give money back to you.

But -- but go through this. How do we get to over a trillion dollars with
Hillary Clinton?

BOOTHE: Well, look, Neil, what Hillary Clinton is doing is, she is selling the
American people a pack of lies.

And the biggest problem here, Neil, is not just the proposals that she is
putting forth, but the fact that she is promising middle-class families that she
is not going to have to raise taxes on them. That`s just simply not the case.
She is saying that she is not going to raise taxes on 97 percent of the American
families who are making $250,000 or less.

But it`s important to point out here it`s not just Republicans that are raising
the raising the alarms on Hillary Clinton`s proposals. It`s also The Washington
Post. In a recent editorial, The Washington Post said that it was implausible
for Hillary Clinton to not raise taxes on middle-class families to meet our
current fiscal obligations and then also these new policies that Hillary Clinton
is proposing.

CAVUTO: I always ask of liberals, as I ask of Republican as well and
conservatives, ask how your -- whatever your proposing is going to be paid for.
That would include tax cuts, not using dynamic accounting, but the money that
you lose right away, at least initially, from a tax cut.

And with Democrats, I would say the same applies to program. How are you going
to pay for it? We have learned that just taxing the 1 percent, even at 100
percent, isn`t going to do it. So what is?

BOOTHE: Well, Neil, and absolutely right.

Look, exactly what you said. Look, if you top the 1 -- or tax the 1 percent at
100 percent, you`re only talking about funding the government for a few months
here. So that`s just not plausible. So, Hillary Clinton`s program, this just
simply isn`t going to work.

And what she is trying to do is pander to middle-class families with these
faulty promises.

(CROSSTALK)

CAVUTO: Well, she wouldn`t be the first Democrat to do that.

BOOTHE: Well, she`s -- no, she`s not going to be the first Democrat to do that.

CAVUTO: Right.

BOOTHE: But it`s important to take a look at these policies and realize that
they`re just not plausible.

CAVUTO: It is interesting. The two sides vary dramatically on government. The
Democrats want more of it. And if you like that, they`re your cup of tea.
Republicans want less of it, more money back to you. If you don`t like that,
they`re not your cup of tea. It`s interesting, right?

BOOTHE: Well, I there are some pretty stark differences between the Republican
Party and Democrats and what we`re offering American families.

The reality is, what we have seen under President Obama is the middle-class
families are further behind. They`re making less money now than they were before
President Obama took office.

CAVUTO: All right.

BOOTHE: And guess who has gotten richer, Neil? It`s the rich.

And so these policies aren`t working. And Hillary Clinton is just going to be a
continuation of the same failed policies that we have seen over the past seven
years.

CAVUTO: Lisa, thank you. Good analysis, as always.

BOOTHE: Thank you, Neil.

CAVUTO: And just a reminder to those -- we do crunch the numbers here, so you
don`t have to.

You could tax the 1 percent, take all their money, and you couldn`t keep
Medicare going for a few years. Then what are you going to do with the other
stuff? Money in, my out, more money going out than coming in. Something -- got
to do something about that, right?

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 113003cb.140

DOCUMENT-TYPE: INTERVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            November 30, 2015 Monday

                 SHOW: YOUR WORLD WITH NEIL CAVUTO 4:50 PM EST

Interview With Former U.S. Army Vice Chief of Staff Jack Keane

BYLINE: Neil Cavuto

GUESTS: Jack Keane

SECTION: NEWS; International

LENGTH: 598  words


NEIL CAVUTO, HOST: All right, the theory goes something like this. This
crackdown on ISIS has killed a lot of members of ISIS. In fact, they`re getting
gunned down and bombed out so fast that we have fewer of them to worry about, so
maybe we don`t have to worry as much about ISIS.

Well, on paper, it makes sense, but retired Four-Star General Jack Keane doesn`t
look at things on paper. He looks at life in reality.

And, General, you`re just not buying this notion that fewer of ISIS means, A,
fewer of ISIS, or, for that matter, that ISIS is no longer a problem, huh?

GEN. JACK KEANE (RET.), FORMER U.S. ARMY VICE CHIEF OF STAFF: No, most of this
reporting is anecdotal.

And we certainly want it to be true, that we have lost thousands of ISIS
fighters, a number of them are defecting, et cetera. But the -- that`s not the
way we look at an adversarial organization. We want to look at their ability to
command and control. We want to look at their tactical and operational
initiative, the territory that they control, how much.

Have they gained, lost, or are they holding what they got? Resiliency, their
ability to recruit, their financial support and funding. All of those things is
the way you look at an organization comprehensively.

Unfortunately, we are not doing that to the degree that we used to do before
this allegation came that -- at CENTCOM and now we have an investigation taking
place. And that`s a sad commentary.

CAVUTO: You know, General, I remember that a lot of these terrorist groups are
like cockroaches. You take out one or some, and many more come in and replace
it.

And I`m wondering if the same applies to ISIS, and we don`t appreciate the
magnitude of that, and now the latest from Angela Merkel in Germany is that many
of these refugees themselves from Syria descending in Europe, many of those
elements are there.

KEANE: Yes. Well, there`s no doubt about it.

One of the attributes that ISIS has had -- and that`s why resiliency and ability
to recruit are important indicators for this organization. I don`t doubt that we
have killed thousands of them. I don`t think we should be counting those
numbers, because I think it can be very misleading unintentionally.

And the truth is, in the last year, despite the killing of ISIS that`s taken
place, they have essentially sustained the size of their organization. Now,
whether we are having actually more impact now, time will be able to tell us,
because it will impact your ability to control territory. It will impact your
ability to take the initiative.

And we will start to see this organization begin to shrink. But this information
we have now, Neil, it is anecdotal. It is not systemic, comprehensive analysis,
and we can`t run off and make a lot of conclusions based on it.

CAVUTO: And nor should we just dismiss the possibility that all of these
developments have actually helped recruiting for ISIS. Right?

KEANE: Oh, there`s no doubt about it.

The Paris attack certainly contributes to that. It gives them this -- again,
this just aura of success and this sense of invincibility. The second thing,
obviously, the migration and the refugees, as you suggest, is playing into their
hands.

Remember, what ISIS wants in Europe, they actually want to polarize and fragment
the Muslim and non-Muslim communities. They want an overreaction against Muslims
to appeal to their sense of grievance and alienation that take place. So some of
this migration and refugee issue is playing right into ISIS` hands.

CAVUTO: All right, General, thank you. Always good seeing you.

KEANE: Yes. Good talking to you, Neil.

CAVUTO: All right.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 113004cb.140

DOCUMENT-TYPE: INTERVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            November 30, 2015 Monday

                           SHOW: THE FIVE 5:00 PM EST

Obama Focuses on Need to Address Climate Change; Terror Attack Imminent on
Kabul; Sen. Lindsey Graham Urging More Troops in Middle East; Donald Trump
Denies Mocking Reporter's Disability; Hillary Proposes $1 Trillion in New
Government Spending; Best Aspects of Christmas Season

BYLINE: Kimberly Guilfoyle, Kirsten Powers, Eric Bolling, Dana Perino, Greg
Gutfeld

SECTION: NEWS; International

LENGTH: 8108  words


ERIC BOLLING, THE FIVE SHOW CO-HOST: Hello, everyone. I'm Eric Bolling along
with Kimberly Guilfoyle, Kirsten Powers, Dana Perino and Greg Gutfeld. It is 5
o'clock in New York City and this is The Five.

According to President Obama, we got ISIS contained. The terror isn't the
world's biggest threat, its climate change, so let's battle the weather with all
our might.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, UNITED STATES PRESIDENT: Nothing will deter us from building the
future we want for our children. What greater rejection of those who would tear
down our world than marshaling our best efforts to save it. I believe, in the
words of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., that there is such a thing as being too
late, and when it comes to climate change, that hour is almost upon us.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BOLLING: Most our commander-in-chief talking tough today about a very dangerous
enemy we need to slay.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

OBAMA: One of the enemies that we'll be fighting at this conference is cynicism,
the notion we can't do anything about climate change.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BOLLING: While the future of the planet is at stake, Mr. President is threatened
by Jihadism, not the weather. Now K.G., President Obama today announced that the
United States is, quote, "the second largest emitter" while suggesting climate
change is the driving force behind terror. Put those two comments together and
you get the president of the United States literally blaming America for
terrorism. Am I wrong?

KIMBERLY GUILFOYLE, THE FIVE SHOW CO-HOST: Well, no, I'm going to agree with the
call of the question. I mean, when you put it together, those are the semantics
that he's driving for. This is the narrative and the ideology that he's been
consistent and espousing from day one. If you see the man and the measure of his
words and his enthusiasm and his passion for climate change, this is where his
focus is and his attention. He does not want to have to deal with ISIS,
whatsoever. It's significantly getting in the way of his own personal ideology
and agenda. I mean, you just see it. This is where he feels most comfortable,
talking about this. This is who he is, this is his climate can. He's good to go.

BOLLING: Not necessarily a terror alarmist, but a climate alarmist.

GREG GUTFELD, THE FIVE SHOW CO-HOST: Well, you know what, the reason for this, a
transparent. It's easier for leftist to champion a cause in which we are at
fault. You cannot do that with Islamic terror, you can't blame it on us. Unless,
through the machination of climate change. Now, I say we should throw it right
back at them. Like climate hysteria actually causes terror. For example,
activism is fueling a war against coal. They want to get rid of coal. There are
a billion people on this planet who are not on the electrical grid. They are
living in poverty, burning impure fuels. That makes them vulnerable to the
desperate move into cities where they aren't wanted, i.e. ended up becoming a
fodder for a terror machines. So by preventing these poor people from getting
cheap fuel, you're actually making them vulnerable to terror. So in a sense, it
is his climate conference, it is his climate hysteria that is leading to
terrorism.

BOLLING: All right, down we get to Dana in a second, but.

GUILFOYLE: Call it a connection made.

BOLLING: Kirsten, the call -- there was -- President Obama connected climate
change to terror, yet I don't see Christians, I don't see Jews blowing people up
and beheading people on the basis of climate change, I'm seeing radical
jihadists doing it.

KIRSTEN POWERS, POLITICAL ANALYST: Well, OK. I will say a couple of things.
First of all, I think you can care about both things, and that's the problem.
You actually can care about terrorism and climate change. The problem is when
you start linking them together. Now, if we want to look at the Department of
Defense, though, all the way back in the Bush administration was saying, the
climate change is a national security risk to the United States. I think the
president was going a little bit further, though. I think when you start talking
specifically about terrorism, and I think we know there are lot of causes
terrorism that if you take climate change out of the equation, it's still going
to be happening, right?

BOLLING: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Dana, there was -- it was a cheap shot to do to what
he did today?

DANA PERINO, THE FIVE SHOW CO-HOST: Well, I think one of the problem that the
leftist had on climate change, getting any sort of solutions that they would be
satisfied with this that they speak about climate change in these apocalyptic
terms that just go, it just goes way overboard, and it makes you realize -- it
makes you think, well, can they not actually deal with both issues at the same
time? Because I agree with Kirsten, but really, I think is interesting, well, at
least to me is that I see terror as --it's the root is evil, OK? Climate change
is a scientific issue that is -- it's based on how we actually fuel all of our
lives, and if it's real or not, I happen to think that you can at least try to
believe that the science is real and then take measures to deal with it. Our
carbon footprint in the United States has actually been shrinking over the last
15 years, while ISIS, their footprint is growing. And that is where they're able
to plot and plan attacks that could actually hurt people today. So I do think
that they could have done two things at once.

BOLLING: Couple of instances why you bring it up, the carbon footprint of that
Climate Change Summit. The 300,000 tons of CO2 emitted.

GUTFELD: Imagine what this effort could have been devoted to, like in terror, if
you replaced climate change with the word terror. When he said, when it comes to
terror, that hour is almost upon us. That will make sense. Like obsessing over
climate change during the time of ISIS, it's like shaving your legs while you're
on the Hindenburg. It makes no sense at all. This link about the drought.

GUILFOYLE: Except for the autopsy.

GUTFELD: Yeah, that's true. You look great in the autopsy.

BOLLING: That's true.

GUTFELD: That's true.

GUILFOYLE: Honestly.

GUTFELD: You want to look nice.

GUILFOYLE: Yeah.

GUTFELD: But the thing about the drought, being linked to the Syrian civil war.
Wheat yields have quadrupled since 1990. They haven't had a problem with the --
the farmers have not had a problem. So why that link would be made, perhaps
because it absolves President Obama from his failure during the Arab Spring.

GUILFOYLE: That's it.

GUTFELD: If it's climate change, it's not Obama's fault.

BOLLING: K.G., also, he's climate activist. It should -- they destroyed a couple
of the memorials to the Paris terror victims today. I mean, talk about a total,
total disregard for humanity.

GUILFOYLE: Total disregard for the sanctity for human life, for unity of nation
coming together to unite against the common enemy of jihad, total lack of
prioritization in terms of where the focus should be. Sure, we can talk and we
can discuss weather and climate change -- fantastic, after we're done with the
patient that's bleeding out on the table. So anybody who goes in, you see like
the gaping chest wound, it's open, you go to close that and address that. Then
you move to the other area, this is the extremities that are not like
threatening. That's the problem I have with it. We can focus on a lot of things
at the same time, but anybody with a reasonable sense of intelligence and
urgency for the situation at hand is going to prioritize in the right way and
effectuate change in that direction, and we're not seeing that.

BOLLING: All right, let's move on now to the climate hysteria. Yet today,
President Obama resided that same description to comment Al Gore delivered years
ago, listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

OBAMA: I saw the effects of climate change first hand in our northernmost state,
Alaska; where the sea is already swallowing villages and eroding shorelines,
where permafrost thaws and the tundra burns; where glaciers are melting at a
pace unprecedented in modern times. And it was a preview of one possible future,
a glimpse of our children fate if the climate keeps changing faster than our
pursued address. Submerge countries, abandoned cities, fields that no longer
grow, political disruptions that trigger new conflict and even more floods of
desperate peoples seeking the sanctuary of nations not their own.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BOLLING: Sorry, Mr. President, arctic ice is not actually melting, it's actually
growing, and by the way, how are all those warmers going to explain the 19-year,
quote, "pause in temperatures." Dana, you chuckled during some of those -- the
pretty.

PERINO: Well, it was just -- it was like Walt Whitman.

BOLLING: Elaborate comments. Yeah.

PERINO: Yes, he is. I mean, like -- this is a speech that he has been wanted to
give for a long time, it's not the State of the Union, it's the state of the
world. According to President Obama, he was never going to miss this conference.
They've been working on it for seven years.

(CROSSTALK)

PERINO: Here's my big problem with it, though. One of the things that President
Obama and John Kerry are saying in Paris is that there is going to be no
enforceable language. So you do all this huge conference, there is no
enforceable language. The only goals that can be achieved through national level
action, and so you have the EPA executive action, it's not gone through
Congress, and it's the clean power plant. Over 50 percent of the states have
sued the government. It already looks like it's probably going to be turned
around, so basically President Obama is saying, "we're going to do our part
through executive action, and even though it's the illegal, and even though it's
unlikely to be overturned," then when it gets to the courts, he will say, "our
entire foreign policy rests on those executive actions, so, therefore, it cannot
be overturned." So he's basically trying to put America in a box.

BOLLING: America in a box, even if China does get onboard. Kirsten, India is a
big emitter of carbon emissions, and they're poor.

POWERS: Yeah.

BOLLING: They can't get on board.

POWERS: Well, this is the problem. I mean look, I see the climate change as a
real problem. I will say I'm from Alaska. It's not quite the wasteland that he's
describing it as, though it does feel a lot warmer to me than it used to be. I
mean to be honest with you, the one I was growing up, it's dramatically warmer.

GUTFELD: Well, that's good for a laugh.

POWERS: Exactly, right.

GUTFELD: That's good. Then people will move there.

POWERS: Yeah, but buyer -- the authority people living there, thank you very
much.

GUTFELD: Are you sure about that?

(LAUGHTER)

GUTFELD: I haven't seen the facts.

(LAUGHTER)

PERINO: Thousands.

GUTFELD: I've heard thousands of people live there.

POWERS: Thousands, yeah.

GUILFOYLE: Check out Wikipedia. Yeah, they're good.

POWERS: Exactly. Saw it on TV, probably.

PERINO: Thousands.

POWERS: Yeah.

GUTFELD: And they were cheering global warming. They were cheering.

BOLLING: And there was video. I'm sure there's video of that.

POWERS: You saw it on television.

PERINO: At least heard.

POWERS: Yeah, but the problem is that you have -- how do you get everybody on
board? Even if we do everything right, how do you get the rest of the world to
stop polluting and deal with it. And I think that's one of the main problems.

GUTFELD: Do you know what you do, though? You are somewhat like accurate and
sincere about the statistics. The world temperatures are rising at half the pace
of the consensus -- what the consensus said in 1990. They've never been correct.
Prince -- according to Prince Charles, when he said these 100 months ago, by
this time, the world will be in ruined. I think if we can be figuring the
apocalypse because they're always wrong. So because of the prior exaggerations
sensible people, American citizens.

PERINO: Right.

GUTFELD: Are skeptical. We need a foreign policy leader, not a Greenpeace
volunteer right now.

POWERS: That's the problem with it, the apocalyptic.

GUTFELD: Yes.

POWERS: And there are lots of smart scientists who will say, climate change is
real, but apocalyptic climate change.

GUTFELD: Yeah

BOLLING: Can I also point out K.G..

GUILFOYLE: Yeah.

BOLLING: That Al Gore in -- this is COP 21 Al Gore and COP 15, six years ago
said, by 2013, the North Pole, the polar cap would be ice-free.

GUILFOYLE: Oh, yeah, you, chicken little, chicken little.

PERINO: And don't forget.

(LAUGHTER)

PERINO: Don't forget, the administration has been working very hard to basically
dismantle coal jobs in the United States, even if they were clean coal jobs. And
these jobs are probably, unfortunately, not coming back without some sort of
change in administration and direction soon, and that has led Hillary Clinton to
say that she not only wants to continue the policies of Barack Obama, but in
exchange for that, she will give you a handout of $30 billion so that you can be
on welfare.

BOLLING: By your job.

PERINO: Right.

BOLLING: Just go away.

PERINO: And your political loyalty.

BOLLING: Just go away quietly.

PERINO: And your vote.

BOLLING: All right.

GUILFOYLE: This is just like climate change Kabuki Theater, you know that right?

GUTFELD: If you were insist.

GUILFOYLE: It's just like making themselves look good and feel good by doing
this, and even the activist knows nothings gonna get accomplished.

GUTFELD: Again, it's ocean privilege. We have our coal, we have our electricity,
we have our iPhones, we have our automobiles, there are a billion people that
are burning impure fuels that kill a few 3 million people a year. They're
burning feces. They're burning trash because they don't have coal. So what we're
doing is we're saying coal is bad, you can't have any. That's makes the
desperate -- they move to areas to live a better life, they end up being
vulnerable to the death machines and death coals of radical Islam.

BOLLING: On that high note.

(LAUGHTER)

GUILFOYLE: We know it.

BOLLING: Next, one of our embassies -- another one. One of our embassies is
warning an imminent terror threat within the next two days. We're gonna tell you
where and when, when The Five returns.

PERINO: All right. While the president is overseas sounding alarms on global
warming, terrorists are preparing to strike again. An attack is imminent in
Afghanistan's capital of Kabul, and that is according to our embassy there. It's
received credible reports it may happen within the next 48 hours. Americans are
being advice to leave or exercise extreme caution when moving about the city.
Presidential candidate Lindsey Graham is urging the administration to commit
more troops to the Middle East to fight terror before another attack happens
here.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

LINDSEY GRAHAM, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: There is no ground force being formed in
Syria. And if you don't look at Iraq and Syria's one battle space, you're making
a huge mistake. Inside of Iraq, if we had 10,000 American forces with some
western coalitions helping us, I think we could get them out of Mosul a lot
quicker. I cannot stress to you how urgent it is that we destroy ISIL. Every day
that goes by that they hold millions of people under their sway, is a bad day
for us, because they're going to hit us at home if we don't put them on the run.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

PERINO: All right, so K.G., what is basically saying is that.

GUILFOYLE: Yeah.

PERINO: ISIS is being -- is allowed to plot and plan attacks from a safe haven.
He's way to solve it, will be to send in more troops. So I think what he's
trying to do is sound the alarm that another attack could happen here if we
don't try to do something more there.

GUILFOYLE: All of these seems reasonable to me. I mean, this is what we've been
saying, so be prepared to commit the resources that we need to get the job done.
If you're saying that you want to destroy, eliminate, cancel ISIS, then do it.
Do it. All the loose like, you know, verbiage, it's -- forget about it. Do
something, come up with a plan and actually execute it, because I think
everybody else there knows. The United States is serious and committed about
doing this and eliminating ISIS, we could do it. We could do it and we could do
it fast.

PERINO: And the thing is, Eric, with Lindsey Graham and John McCain was sitting
with them that we didn't have a sound from him that, there are not coming from a
place of total ignorance, right? Because not like they are just reading in a
paper, so they have a lot of sources and I'm sure there are people, either the
Pentagon or the Intel community kind of tell them to try to help them get their
message across the administration.

GUILFOYLE: Yeah.

PERINO: It seems to me that the White House doesn't really want to seem to
listen to anybody.

BOLLING: The White House has a plan. I guess their strategy and it seems to be
they're sticking by it. By the way, I watched Homeland last night that you can
tell what's gonna happened to ISIS next by watching Homeland.

(LAUGHTER)

BOLLING: Everyone thought ISIS was gonna back to Syrian, fight that battle there
with some chemical weapons. They actually turned around, went back to Berlin,
i.e. Europe, so watch for that.

(CROSSTALK)

BOLLING: A year in advance they taped that show and they've been spot on. The
point is who knows what the strategy is? The other day -- I think it was Friday,
Morell, maybe said that they didn't -- the Obama administration.

PERINO: Got it.

BOLLING: Didn't bomb -- do you have the SOT?

PERINO: Yeah, you want to hear it?

BOLLING: I do.

PERINO: OK. Take a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MICHAEL MORELL, FORMER CIA DEPUTY DIRECTOR: There seem to have a judgment that
-- look, we don't want to destroy these oil tankers because mass infrastructure
that's gonna be necessary to support the people when ISIS isn't there anymore.
And it's going to create environmental damage. And we didn't go after oil wells,
actually heating oil wells that ISIS controls because we didn't want to do
environmental damage and we didn't want to destroy that infrastructure.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

PERINO: Morell is providing us a lot of information.

BOLLING: Yeah, but things that we suspected before, that he actually no
strategy. In fact, we talked about here wiping out those oil fields, because you
can -- Mr. Obama, all you -- people in the State Department, you can rebuild
those oil fields very fast. Those are standard drilled wells that can be rebuilt
very, very quickly and very cheaply. But they say they didn't bomb the oil
fields because they're worried about environmental damage, tell that to the
people who died. Tell that to the families of people who died since they decided
not to do.

GUILFOYLE: Hello to the refugee.

PERINO: Well, not only that.

BOLLING: Tens of millions of dollars per month revenue to ISIS that they could
have cut off.

PERINO: That's actually -- that was the point I was gonna get to, because they
actually, not only do they have a place to plot and plan, but they have a place
to gain revenue because they're using the oil field.

GUTFELD: Well, here's a weird proposition, OK. Either you annihilate or you
capitulate, and I'm thinking like, you know, this Islamic state has no air
force, and they have no navy. Essentially, what they have is terror. And as long
as you have no air force or no navy in -- on your own, you will always commit
terror acts, but we somehow accept North Korea. We accept that there is an evil,
awful regime that is contained like a benign tumor, that whenever it becomes
malignant, we will zap it, but we leave it there and we decide, that's what
we're going to do. It seems to me that it works so far with North Korea, we are
hoping that one day will stop working and we can destroy them. Why can't we
apply that to ISIS?

POWERS: What do you mean now?

GUTFELD: I'm saying.

POWERS: Why have.

GUTFELD: Why not just say OK -- Islamic state.

POWERS: Just leave them alone?

GUTFELD: Let it go, let him cohese or become a structure, and then wait for
their.

(CROSSTALK)

POWERS: Because we can't, I mean, well first of all, North Korea has -- is not
as evil and horrible as they are, is not a direct threat like what ISIS is.

GUTFELD: Exactly. And the reason is.

(CROSSTALK)

GUTFELD: There is North Korean ISIS.

POWERS: And they have nuclear weapons.

GUTFELD: Yes.

POWERS: So, I mean, that makes it a little more difficult. But I think we have
an immediate problem with ISIS -- I mean, look, I wish we could do something
about North Korea. It's -- what they do their own people is horrific. But the
problem is the thing about the 20,000 troops that we're talking about that we
started out on this is that I wonder is that even enough, you know, with what
we're talking about.

PERINO: Lindsey Graham said it was 10,000.

POWERS: Ten thousand, OK. Yeah, and so I mean, it's not even enough, though, we
get into a situation -- or still either you're going in with overwhelming force
and you're going to do it.

GUTFELD: That is my point.

POWERS: Or else don't do it. Was that your point? OK.

(LAUGHTER)

GUTFELD: I said annihilation or capitulation.

POWERS: Yes.

GUTFELD: If you play this middle game, the middle game will never end.

GUILFOYLE: Correct.

GUTFELD: To annihilation or capitulation.

GUILFOYLE: Annihilation, use it.

GUTFELD: Capitulation ultimately a leads to annihilation.

POWERS: Yeah, I do.

GUTFELD: What you get them in one spot.

(CROSSTALK)

POWERS: And really just people think Americans don't really support sending
troops in for the most part. They think, well so, we just send some troops in,
but then we'll just continue the problem. I think that, you know.

PERINO: It's a little bit unfair that Lindsey Graham and everybody from the
Pentagon, including those who have resigned under the administration who come
out and said, their consensus are that they need $10,000.

GUILFOYLE: And they know better, right?

(CROSSTALK)

GUILFOYLE: Yes. We have.

PERINO: Really?

GUILFOYLE: My point is we can respect the opinions, you know, public opinion,
but that's why leaders are in place, that's why Intelligence Department in the
Pentagon and people are there at the Department of Defense, et cetera. To be
able to make these calls to assess the information, compile it and make
responsible choices on our behalf. And I trust them.

(CROSSTALK)

PERINO: Can bring one another topic?

GUTFELD: No.

PERINO: All right, did you have another point?

BOLLING: I just want to agree with Greg. I love this idea, drive ISIS back into
Syria. Let them have Syria. Let Syria figure out that Bashar al-Assad working
out with ISIS, whoever wins, and then you -- yeah, there still have a problem,
but you've isolated your problem.

PERINO: But you cannot contain their social media reach or the fact that people
are able to travel with passports back and forth, that's the problem. And that's
actually the second point that I want to bring up, Greg. We talked earlier today
about how the United States, the President Obama, today announced that they are
going to change the way that we -- and screen people that are coming in from
terrorist safe havens.

GUTFELD: Well, so President Obama hates women and babies.

PERINO: Orphans.

GUTFELD: He hates orphans. No, but this is -- he realizes that to continue down
the fantasy of an open border for these refugees, it suspends the logic of
everyday life. Suppose you were told that a popular baby food contained a spiked
-- get spiked ingredient of cyanide, but it's a very small percentage of the
product. It's like one in a thousand -- one in 10,000, would you still buy that
baby food for your child? Of course, you wouldn't. When there is a malfunction
in the car, you don't recall 10 of the cars, you recall all of them. So that is
practical -- that is a practical way of thinking that he was suspending when it
came to terror, and now he realizes he was wrong. And I like the fact that he
admitted that he was wrong, probably watching The Five.

PERINO: Well, he's not -- he's not exactly admitting he was wrong.

GUTFELD: Of course not.

PERINO: But it does seem to me, Eric.

GUTFELD: Obama.

PERINO: We could have avoided the whole refugee fight of the past.

BOLLING: No. He's turning the refugee debate which he realizes he's wrong to
jump people jumping their visa debate, or which he was wrong on his well. And
frankly, we've been wrong for a long time.

PERINO: Yes. So the changes are good.

BOLLING: They're very good.

PERINO: So we are supportive. We are all in agreement. I love that.

(CROSSTALK)

GUTFELD: I disagree with agreement.

PERINO: All right, next. Donald Trump on the defense again after creating a new
series of controversies for himself, Greg, has some advice for the presidential
candidate he may want to heed when The Five returns.

GUTFELD: Last week, Donald Trump mocked a reporter.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Right after a couple of good paragraphs,
and talking about northern New Jersey draws the prober's eye, written by a nice
reporter. Now the poor guy, you got to see this guy, oh, I don't know what I
said. I don't remember. He's going -- I don't remember, oh, maybe, that's what I
said. This is 14 years ago. He still -- they didn't do a retraction.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GUTFELD: Now he claims he didn't know the guy was disabled. Here's the reporter
and Trump, close call. A dude with disabilities mocked in a way that seems to
play off a disability. Let's watch the tape again.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: The poor guy, you got to see this guy, oh, I don't know what I said. I
don't remember. He's going --I don't remember. Oh, maybe that's what I said.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GUTFELD: I'll admit it, I cringed. But hey, as long as he's in front, who cares?
Well, I do. And fans of The Five do too. They're fans of this show because they
like how we treat each other. But they saw their son pulling a Trump, they'd
smack him. But it's not Trump's fault, it's the enablers who indulge him. I
embrace the broken window theory. You know, if you don't police small crimes,
you end up with bigger ones. During my speeches, my manager sits up front.
Later, he tells you what I did wrong, and my wife chimes in. They save me from
my idiocy, and it's hard for them. And it's hard for them to be honest and say
to me, "Greg, stop being a jerk." But they do it because no one else will.
That's my role here Donald, I care and telling you knock it off, because
clearly, no one else will. Stop treating this like a blue collar comedy tour.
You're not Triumph, the Insult Comic Dog. You need fewer toadies and more folks
who operate under a code. And a code is a set of principles that exist
independent of politics. A person with a code reacts consistently to actions
regardless of who did it. Remember when we nailed President Obama for his
Special Olympics joke? A code requires that we do the same here and now. So no
more excuses, exaggerations and impersonations, you're running for president,
believe it or not.

By the way, Kimberly, I hate the fact that I'm being an arbiter of good
behavior.

(LAUGHTER)

GUTFELD: I am probably the most obnoxious, tasteless person on this network.

GUILFOYLE: And I'm here to tell you that you're right.

GUTFELD: Yes.

GUILFOYLE: The first step is admitting that you have a problem.

GUTFELD: Well, if this were your spouse or child at, like, a playground, you
would be like, "Uh."

GUILFOYLE: I would ask them what they were doing.

GUTFELD: Yes.

GUILFOYLE: Do they know? I would investigate it and get the facts and find out
exactly what was going on.

GUTFELD: I'd smack 'em.

GUILFOYLE: Well, I mean, I like to actually find out first before I punish. You
know what I mean?

GUTFELD: And you would -- and what if they lied to you about it when you know
they're lying?

GUILFOYLE: Then they would be double punished.

GUTFELD: But they would like being double punished by you.

GUILFOYLE: First -- now you see the problem.

GUTFELD: I know.

PERINO: That's where your wife would say, "That thing about Kimberly, no, no."

GUILFOYLE: People deliberately lie to me so they can be punished again. This is
the problem.

GUTFELD: What do you think, Kirsten? So why do some people choose to accept
behavior in one person but not in another? The team sport part of politics?

POWERS: Are you saying so why are people...

GUTFELD: For example, like, if President Obama had made a joke about John McCain
being handicapped from his war injuries and being a POW and not being a hero, we
would have the pitchforks.

POWERS: Right, yes. I mean, I think a lot of people would criticize him for
that, even people on the left.

But I do think there are just double standards. People do tend to,
unfortunately, kind of, yes, stay with their team. So if it's somebody on their
side, it makes them sort of feel like they have to come to their defense.
They'll say -- what I notice a lot, too, from Twitter or whatever, it's always,
"But the other side is worse."

GUTFELD: Right.

POWERS: Always what they come back with. It's like, when you sort of say, they
shouldn't have done this, it's like, "Well, what about the time Obama did this?
Or what about the time?" It's like, what about it? That was bad and this is bad.
They're both bad.

GUTFELD: Yes. I mean, that's the defense, is that OK, look what the left did to
Sarah Palin or her child.

POWERS: Right, exactly.

GUTFELD: Or look what they did about Special Olympics. The media didn't care, so
we care then.

POWERS: Exactly.

BOLLING: Me?

GUTFELD: Yes.

BOLLING: Well, again, we have to be clear. If Donald Trump knew that Kovaleski
had this issue, he had this disability, then you can say, Donald, what are you
doing? Do you really want to make fun of someone with a disability? We don't
know that for a fact. I mean...

GUTFELD: It's a coincidence.

BOLLING: Well, it may be. I think -- but I also over the weekend, I also saw
Hillary Clinton with a similar hand gesture in one of her speeches. Now, it had
nothing to do with this reporter. Is it some -- listen, I'm not an apologist for
Donald Trump. I'm simply saying if he knew and did it on purpose for the shock
value, then I would suggest as a person -- who knows, and probably not the best
thing to do, not at this point.

You're winning. You've got 31 percent in a Reuters rolling average. The next
closest is 14 percent. Everyone else is under 10, single digits. Maybe you don't
need to do that.

If he knew it. If he didn't know, I mean, we hold him at a very -- we don't have
a standard for him. We're letting him get away with everything. If any of us had
done that, we would be -- I don't think we'd have a job. And we're not running
for president. I mean, that's what I'm saying.

I am not -- I'm an obnoxious idiot. First person to say that. But I am not
running for president. I can make mistakes.

PERINO: But mocking somebody for a physical deformity that they have no control
over is, I think, beyond the pale. There's a guy that I talked to the other day.
He's a Trump supporter, and he said, "What do you make of Trump about the
reporter?"

I said, "What do you think?"

"You know, Trump gestures all the time when he's speaking."

I'm like, "OK." And he -- when he realized I wasn't buying it, he said, "Well, I
think that he was kind of justified because a reporter once wrote a bad story
about the Tea Party."

I'm like, "Listen to yourself. You went from thinking it would probably be a bad
idea for mocking somebody with a physical deformity from defending someone for
an article that they wrote at one point. I actually admired the people. There
were some on Twitter said, "I don't care if he mocks the reporter." That's fine.
If you want to live by that code, that's your choice, but don't try to convince
me that what I saw with my own eyes isn't true.

GUTFELD: Yes, here's Trump talking about The New York Times reporter actually
benefitting from this.

PERINO: Right.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: This reporter is so happy. People have
heard of him now. Nobody ever heard of the guy. You know, people are so -- he's
having such a good time.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GUTFELD: So the theory here is, Kimberly, it's OK to make fun of somebody
because you'll make them famous.

GUILFOYLE: I mean, I don't know. Listen, we have a job to do here, and we have
to answer to our management and to our standards and practices, right? We're not
running a project.

What I'm saying, voters will decide, and they will choose and see if he is the
nominee based on a whole bunch of things. Now do I think, you know, it's OK to
make fun of anybody with disabilities? No, I do not. Would I personally do it?
No. Do I know that he specifically was intending to make fun of him because he
was disabled and do that? I'm not going to pass that judgment on. He knows he
can answer.

GUTFELD: Would you pass that judgment if it was Obama or Hillary Clinton doing
it? Would you pass that judgment.

GUILFOYLE: And they knew that? I would -- yes, I would want to find out if
that's, in fact, what they intended, what they knew and that they acted on it.

GUTFELD: You'd be every bit -- show every bit as such self-restraint.

GUILFOYLE: I don't care what your political party, affiliation, subcategory,
subtext is, if that's what you knew and you did it on purpose, that's not the
thing to do, period. I don't care who you are. Is that fair?

PERINO: OK.

GUTFELD: I guess so. But you're withholding your judgment on whether he did or
not, and I'm wondering if you would withhold your judgment on other people.
Because generally, it goes back to the double standard.

GUILFOYLE: But this is my point. I would say I would investigate it, just like I
did with every case. I would be handled a case where the defendant was some
prison (UNINTELLIGIBLE).

GUTFELD: Did you investigate this case?

GUILFOYLE: I didn't investigate this case. I've been reading all the reports
about it to see what the fact pattern is.

GUTFELD: I watched it a lot.

GUILFOYLE: And when did he meet him, and what did he know? So that's how I
approach all my...

GUTFELD: He did know the reporter.

GUILFOYLE: Yes.

GUTFELD: He did know the reporter.

GUILFOYLE: He said he met him 14 years ago.

GUTFELD: He says he has a fantastic memory. So I mean, he remembered the
thousands and thousands of people that we have no documentation of celebrating
9/11, no physical documentation. He remembered that. So I don't know, it's
weird. It's very weird.

GUILFOYLE: Well, I think that you sit comfortably with your decision.

GUTFELD: I think I have, Kimberly. Shall we move on?

GUILFOYLE: Please.

BOLLING: Please.

GUTFELD: Hillary Clinton has unveiled a plan to create more jobs in America, but
she forgot to tell Americans how much it's going to cost them. That's up next.

GUILFOYLE: Good one.

Hillary Clinton has a promise for all those hard-working Americans out there.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HILLARY CLINTON (D), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: My job as your president will be to
do everything I can to create more good-paying jobs, to get wages rising again
for American workers and families. Because Americans have not had a raise. And
it's time we get back to where we were before the Republicans came in and messed
it up again.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GUILFOYLE: Ai, yi, yi.

So what's her plan to get our economy back on track? She's just unveiled a $275
billion proposal to invest in our infrastructure, but she isn't saying how she's
going to pay for it. That's a problem.

The Republicans say it could result in tax hikes on the middle class as
Clinton's campaign promises have now topped $1 trillion. Big spender -- Bolling.

BOLLING: So this has been going on for a long time. They've been talking about
this infrastructure bank that they wanted. They want to form a bank. They want
to attach things like financial transactions, gasoline additional 50 cents or a
dollar. They've come up with all different ways to do it.

I love the idea of spending a lot more than $275 billion in infrastructure. I
like the idea of spending a trillion dollars or more on infrastructure, because
we need it. Our roads and bridges are crumbling, and that's legit and that's
true.

The question is how do you raise the money for it? In my opinion, it should be
done on a private basis. In other words, privatize some roads. The real bad
ones, go ahead and make them highways. Sell them the hedge funds. Sell them the
banks and let them charge tolls. And then let them fix it, because they're a lot
more efficient at things like that than the government is.

GUILFOYLE: You can say that. I think that's a refreshing idea. You know what I
don't like? Why is everything piggybacked, you know, on the middle class? Why,
why, why? That's not going to help the economy, markets, jobs, any of the above.
It's not going to encourage people, small businesses. I mean, we're already
choking them to death with excessive regulations, Dana.

PERINO: Well, that was going to be my point. There might be -- no, it's good. It
was very helpful that there might be a need for $275 billion worth of
infrastructure spending.

But what could really help is if the government actually got better at
streamlining a permitting process. This is where everything is bogging down. You
don't -- you have to do so many different environmental checks. You have to do
so many safety checks.

All of those things may be important, but they're not done at the same time.
They're done one after the other, so that you delay projects for so long to the
point that they just fall apart.

There were no shovel-ready jobs available when President Obama put forward the
stimulus package. And it showed, because you weren't able to actually produce
any jobs or get any results and improve the infrastructure.

GUILFOYLE: Remember that? Terrible.

PERINO: To me it's bureaucracy. That's where we could actually have a bigger
impact.

GUILFOYLE: Are we going to, like, shrink the waist of the bureaucracy, Greg?

GUTFELD: Mm-hmm. Well, for a liberal, spending your money is their Olympic
sport. Bloated programs is their pornography. I -- it's not about workers; it's
about union workers. Is this about employing more union workers for these
programs, because they're the ones that are eligible?

I have an idea. How about a $10 billion southern -- a freeway along the southern
border? Just build it all on a big, white freeway, and then the day before we
all run down there and we push it up. There, we built a wall.

PERINO: That would be beautiful.

GUTFELD: It would be. See? That would work.

BOLLING: I heard it's going to cost a lot more than that, though.

GUTFELD: Really?

GUILFOYLE: Yes, exactly.

GUTFELD: But you would do it! A $10 billion freeway, and then we just push it
up. And there you've got the wall.

GUILFOYLE: Maybe they'll pay for it.

POWERS: Well, I think -- I think one of the biggest problems with this is that
she doesn't really explain how she's going to pay for it, and that's something
that even the "Washington Post" editorial board has dinged her for. She somehow
is going to do all this with only -- the only group of -- there's, like, 3
percent of the population she said that she will tax, right, which is
impossible.

There's just no way to do this without taxing the middle class. And so I would
want more details, more specifics about how she was going to do this, because I
do think the middle class is completely overburdened right now.

BOLLING: Would you be willing to -- would you accept a gasoline tax or a
transaction tax?

POWERS: Yes. I think this is -- like you said, this is important. I mean, these
are things that we have to do, but I think you have to be transparent and honest
about how you're going to pay for them. And look, I know all politicians do this
when I don't think we should accept it. I think that we should press them.
Reporters should press them on explaining it. You can't just -- it just doesn't
add up. You can't throw out these few little things that simply are -- there's
no way you're going to pay for all of this.

GUILFOYLE: So she's saying throw a flag on the play. Explain yourself.

All right. Thanksgiving 2015. Oh, yes, it's in the books, our special about 25
times. Only 26 days until Christmas. What's our favorite part of the Christmas
season? You want to know. And in Greg's case, his least favorite, there are
many. Stay tuned.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Isn't there anyone who knows what Christmas is all about?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Sure, Charlie Brown. I can tell you what Christmas is all
about. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a savior, which is
Christ the lord. And this shall be a sign unto you.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Linus is right. I won't let all this commercialism ruin my
Christmas. I'll take this little tree home and decorate it, and I'll show them
it really will work in our play.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

POWERS: You know it's -- the Christmas season has officially kicked off when "A
Charlie Brown Christmas" makes its way back to TV. The animated classic is
marking its 50th anniversary tonight. it's the second longest running holiday
special in TV history, behind "Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer."

So now that Christmas time is in full swing, what are we looking forward to the
most this holiday?

I think I'll ask Mr. Holiday Cheer over here. What are you looking forward to?

GUILFOYLE: The Grinch?

GUTFELD: No. And I don't make any secret of it: I hate this season probably more
than anything on the planet. But I will -- I would prefer to talk about what I
like, which is Charlie Brown, which I think is the most powerful comic strip in
the history of comics, because it was able to take the insecurities of children
and express them. It's stuff that we carry in our genes that we don't
understand. Charlie Brown focused on them.

And the most important thing about -- what's so interesting about this strip was
Pigpen. He was always the dirty guy, and wherever he walked, there was a big --
big tumult of dirt behind him. What's behind that story? What does that story
mean?

It was about absentee parents, because everybody knew a kid in their classroom
that was neglected, that was wearing dirty clothes, and it was borne from the
selfishness and addiction of their parents that neglected these kids. And
Charles Schultz, with Pigpen, pretty much predicted a large consequence of our
society as our family structures broke down. Pigpen was that story. If you ever
watching "The Wire," Dukie. The kid who was the -- the kid, one of the kids.
Remember? That was Pigpen. Pigpen predicted almost every problem that we have
had in the last 30 years.

PERINO: That's deep.

POWERS: You just wrote, like, a college thesis.

GUTFELD: I think I did it on this show, though, three years ago.

GUILFOYLE: Correct. Correct. You remember? But it was good then, too. It's good.

GUTFELD: Impressed everybody.

GUILFOYLE: He's right. And the Pigpens out there, they know who they are. And I
have such love for them. And so what I would do...

GUTFELD: You know who they were?

BOLLING: You have a -- you have a sweet spot?

GUILFOYLE: I don't want to give their names, but I swear, I swear I'm well known
for this. If you're not like a little Basil (ph) and you're not getting
attention, I would mother you.

On Valentine's Day, I would buy you the cupcakes from the secret admirer. I
would buy you the cupcakes if they had a cupcake. You know? Because I had others
that would come from the secret admirers. And if I had a cupcake, I'd sit next
to them in school. I sat next to and ate with a couple of these little Pigpen
guys that you see in the cafeteria.

GUTFELD: You're like the Florence Nightingale of people who didn't bathe.

GUILFOYLE: OK. I mean, wouldn't you want...

PERINO: Went straight to Valentine's Day.

GUTFELD: Yes.

POWERS: Let's stay with Christmas.

PERINO: I loved in Charlie Brown, which I didn't realize until I read the
article today, is that the story of Jesus in the Charlie Brown Christmas special
was almost not included, because the -- Schultz and others thought it was too
risky.

To me when I watched it as a kid, it was just very natural, because I went to
Sunday school and this was the story that I knew; and this is what I knew about
Christmas. So...

GUILFOYLE: It's my favorite.

PERINO: I'm so glad that they included it.

BOLLING: Can I just point out my wife has obsessive -- opposite of you, she has
obsessive Christmas disorder. I mean, it's everything. It's the tree lighting.
We're going to have to go to the tree lighting.

GUILFOYLE: That's Wednesday, 7 p.m. Eastern.

BOLLING: You have to go watch that. Top to bottom, she's all over it. But it's
kind of cool.

GUILFOYLE: You love it. I love "Charlie Brown Christmas" first and then "Rudolph
the Red-Nosed Reindeer."

POWERS: Me, too.

GUTFELD: What about "Frosty the Snowman"?

PERINO: Love it.

GUTFELD: White privilege.

POWERS: All right. "One More Thing" is up next.

BOLLING: Time for "One More Thing." Dana's first.

PERINO: I'm excited about this, because I have a gift for everyone. Pay
attention.

The White House Historical Association designs a White House Christmas ornament
every year. And this year, they are honoring our 30th president, Calvin
Coolidge. And what's cool about this, for the first time ever, it has a little
light, a little LED light. There you go. Look.

POWERS: Wow.

PERINO: This is the White House Historical Association. You can go on
WhiteHouseHistory.org, and you can order them. You can collect them every year.
But you get to start your collections today.

Greg, I know you like Calvin Coolidge. You don't like Christmas, but you like
Coolidge.

GUTFELD: Coolidge will look great at my Kwanzaa.

PERINO: You can have it. Anyway, thanks to them for sending that up here.

GUILFOYLE: Thank you!

PERINO: Thanks, Stuart and Lauren.

GUILFOYLE: Thank you.

POWERS: Thank you.

BOLLING: OK. So I told you all before we left for Thanksgiving holiday we were
bringing Eric Chase, our son, to Las Vegas, the Las Vegas rescue mission to
serve Thanksgiving dinner and the next day to the homeless there. Here, check
out the pictures. By the way, it's the greatest gift you can possibly give a
child.

Here's -- there's the meal that was served, the Thanksgiving meal. There's --
they put out -- get this -- a thousand meals on Thanksgiving dinner and 400
meals the day after Thanksgiving. Next one, there's Adrienne over there in the
white hat serving. There's Eric Chase walking through the crowd talking to
people. Amazing, amazing day, two days, actually, and then afterwards we had the
good fortune to spend some time at Steve Wynn's hotel, and that's it. That's
what we did.

Greg, you're up.

GUTFELD: Well, that's depressing, because I didn't have as much fun. Get out of
my -- get out of my line here. I'm trying to speak.

First of all, if you want to learn how to defeat ISIS on a personal level, go to
Breitbart.com. I've got a column up there where I talk about how you can
actually beat ISIS.

Now, Eric shared you his plans for Thanksgiving. I -- people thought that I
spent it alone, but actually I didn't. I met up with a good friend of mine and
we had a good time. It was -- there he is. His name is Scruffy McNucken. And
there he is. He's...

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

(HAMSTER EATING A PIECE OF CARROT)

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GUILFOYLE: Is that a carrot?

GUTFELD: Yes. He enjoyed it. We just sacked out. We watched a bunch of movies
together, all the "Diehards." And you know, it's great, because he's a very
cheap date, just one piece of one carrot.

GUILFOYLE: Is he still alive?

GUTFELD: Well, I rolled over and he died.

BOLLING: He wasn't drinking, was he?

GUTFELD: Very low tolerance.

BOLLING: All right, K.G.

GUILFOYLE: Mine was really sweet and normal. Yes, normal. So we had a great
Thanksgiving. It was with Ronan's grandparents, and his dad.

PERINO: Aww.

GUILFOYLE: And then we spent the weekend doing fun things like going to the
park. That's me, Ronan, Ro-diggity and Bella. And then Ronan's an aspiring
photographer. He took a really nice picture outside of the sunset and
everything, which is fabulous.

And I also want to say happy birthday. We were supposed to get to it, but with
the breaking news we didn't last Friday. To Sean O'Rourke, who is amazing.

GUTFELD: Boo. Boo.

GUILFOYLE: I love you so much, Sean. You're fantastic. Irish and Puerto Rican
like me.

BOLLING: Sean does a nice job.

GUILFOYLE: He's amazing.

BOLLING: Even when he cheats on the music.

GUILFOYLE: OK. Well.

BOLLING: All right. Kristen, you're up.

POWERS: I went out to Seattle for my Thanksgiving. My family lives in Alaska,
that wasteland where the environment's ruining it. And anyway, we went up. These
are my nieces, Mateo and Chloe and their little cousin Carter. This is me and
Chloe. And I think we have one more of just the three of us. And my phone was
broken, which is why everything is a selfie. So -- but yes, it was awesome.

GUILFOYLE: Very nice.

POWERS: There's them looking -- Yes, that was -- I think their mom took over
that picture.

BOLLING: We're going to leave it right there. Set your DVR's so you never miss
an episode of "The Five." That's it for us right here. Guess what's up next?
"Special Report" is up next.

GUTFELD: Yay.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 113001cb.258

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            November 30, 2015 Monday

              SHOW: FOX SPECIAL REPORT WITH BRET BAIER 6:00 PM EST

More Clinton E-Mails Released; Endorsement Season; Act of Defiance against ISIS;
Colorado Springs Suspect Appear in Court via Video; Officer on Trial; Working
with Less Intelligence

BYLINE: Shannon Bream, Ed Henry, Peter Doocy, Kevin Corke, Brit Hume, Will Carr,
Leland Vittert, Catherine Herridge

GUESTS: Charles Krauthammer, George Will, Juan Williams, Maria Bartiromo, Stuart
Varney, Trish Regan

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 7254  words


SHANNON BREAM, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: I'm Shannon Bream in for Bret Baier who is on
assignment tonight in New York. This is a Fox News alert.

The frontrunner for the Democratic presidential nomination, who already has many
trust issues with the American public, is dealing with problems both old and new
tonight. There is word Hillary Clinton opened her secretary of state's office to
a steady stream of potential donors to her campaign. And we're getting a first
look tonight at the latest batch of e-mails from her private servers and
addresses.

Chief White House correspondent Ed Henry is here with details. Good evening --
Ed.

ED HENRY, FOX NEWS CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Good to see you - - Shannon.

The largest document dump, 700 pages. Most significant dispatch has 328 more
e-mails that have now been deemed classified. That means a grand total of 999
classified e-mails so far despite Clinton declaring in March her server had no
classified information.

Her campaign has noted the documents were not marked classified while her
critics say the secretary should have known it was sensitive information. And
today those critics got even more fodder.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

HENRY: The release of a new batch of Hillary Clinton's e-mails come amid new
questions about whether she improperly opened her office as secretary of state
for meetings with labor bosses, corporate campaign donors, plus contributors to
the Clinton Foundation to help pave the way for her second presidential run.

STEPHEN SPAULDING, COMMON CUASE: This is the kind of situation that you get
where money is the coin of the realm. Money buys meetings. It buys returned
phone calls.

HENRY: The Associated Press, after a year's-long request under the Freedom of
Information Act, has finally obtained copies of Clinton's daily calendars.

PepsiCo Inc CEO Indra Nooyi had three meetings with Clinton as the soda company
spent millions lobbying the federal government. And the State Department pitched
the cola giant on funds for a U.S. pavilion at an expo in China. Back in 2008,
Pepsi's Foundation had pledged $7.6 million in grants to two water firms as part
of a program tied to the Clinton Global Initiative.

Another sign of Clinton's intersecting worlds, she met three times with American
Federation of Teachers chief Randi Weingarten whose union has given up to $5
million to the Clinton Foundation. The union chief also sits on the board of a
super PAC backing Clinton and Weingarten endorsed her candidacy in July.

There's no evidence of wrongdoing and a Clinton campaign spokesman noted she has
turned over her e-mail and calendars to be transparent about her time as
secretary while also pledging campaign finance reformer.

HILLARY CLINTON (D), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: And we need a Supreme Court that
protects the right of every citizen to vote, not the right of every corporation
to buy elections.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

HENRY: Now the new e-mails also show in late 2012 a top Clinton aide consulted
with NFL commissioner Roger Goodell and Dr. and Senator Bill Frist about her
concussion. Aide (inaudible) has e-mailed Clinton his goal was quote, "undermine
claims by Fox contributors John Bolton and Laura Ingraham who had suggested that
she was faking the injury to avoid Benghazi testimony -- Shannon.

BREAM: And still many e-mails to come through.

HENRY: Still going through thousands of pages.

BREAM: Thanks -- Ed.

HENRY: Good to see you.

BREAM: Well, the time between Thanksgiving and New Year's may be holiday season
to you, but every four years it is endorsement season for presidential
candidates.

Ahead of the first actual voting after the first of the year, the GOP hopefuls
are trying to get as many people as possible to join up with them publicly.

Correspondent Peter Doocy looks at the endorsement scorecard tonight.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: A press conference with 100
African-American Pastors at Trump Tower was called off as word emerged they were
not all ready to endorse the Republican frontrunner as advertised.

VICTOR COUZENS, INSPIRATIONAL BAPTIST CHURCH: I don't know that I will
necessarily consider endorsing him. I think that's a little premature right now
for me, but I'm willing to listen to see what he has to say.

DOOCY: One of the event's organizers Pastor Darrell Scott took the blame for the
miscommunication. The meeting still happened and the big endorsement may still
happen, too.

STEPHEN PARSON, VIRGINIA PASTOR: I talked to a number of black ministers that
said they're going to vote for Trump, but they just haven't come out publicly
with it because they're afraid of losing member support.

DOOCY: The sit-down came as Trump doubled down on his assertion that he watched
live as large groups of Muslims in New Jersey celebrated the September 11
terrorist attacks.

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Many people saw it in person. I've had
hundreds of phone calls to the Trump Organization saying we saw it. There was
dancing in the streets.

DOOCY: And now Trump's competition across the Hudson is getting a badly needed
boost because Chris Christie, who didn't even make the main stage at the last
debate, is the top of the Granite State's influential union leader newspaper,
endorsing him because they think, quote, "Governor Christie is right for these
dangerous times. He has prosecuted terrorists and dealt admirably with major
disasters.

This morning another important endorsement as Republican Congressman Darrell
Issa backed Senator Marco Rubio.

REP. DARRELL ISSA (R), CALIFORNIA: He's not afraid to engage on the hottest
subjects and that's important.

DOOCY: Rubio is really raking in Republican support accumulating 18
congressional endorsements compared to just 11 for Senator Ted Cruz.

SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: If you say things are going great
in Washington then we need to keep heading in the same basic direction just a
bit around the edge --

DOOCY: But only one candidate spent thanksgiving in the Middle East, Dr. Ben
Carson. Accused by rivals of being weak on foreign policy, he visited refugee
camps in Jordan and the outsider has a new prescription for Syrians displaced by
ISIS.

DR. BEN CARSON (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I had the opportunity to talk to
many of the Syrian refugees and asked them, what is your supreme desire? And it
was pretty uniform. They want to go back home.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

DOOCY: We may be starting to see a new crack in the pledge the party made all
candidates sign to support the eventual GOP nominee no matter who it is, because
John Kasich is now refusing to say that he would support his side's nominee if
it's Trump. But an RNC official told me today they are not concerned about
Kasich potentially breaking that pledge -- Shannon.

BREAM: All right. Peter -- thank you.

President Obama has been invited to deliver the state of the union address to
Congress on Tuesday January 12. The invitation comes from House Speaker Paul
Ryan. We are now awaiting a formal acceptance.

The Obama administration is boosting the amount of ethanol and other renewable
fuels in the U.S. gasoline supply. It's a victory for the ethanol industry over
an unusual alliance of oil companies, environmentalists and some Republican
presidential candidates. The first caucus state, Iowa, produces more ethanol
than any other state.

President Obama says the climate change conference going on right now in Paris
is an act of defiance to terrorism, following the deadly attacks on the French
capital two weeks ago.

Correspondent Kevin Corke is traveling with the President and reports tonight
from Paris.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

KEVIN CORKE, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: In the largest ever gathering of world
leaders for a summit of its kind, President Obama tried to draw a connection
between countering climate change and the ongoing global war on terror.

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: What greater rejection of those
who would tear down our world than marshalling our best efforts to save it. We
have come to Paris to show our resolve.

CORKE: The President, part of a group of 150 world leaders gathered for the U.N.
climate summit in Paris, a city still reeling from the devastating terror
attacks two weeks ago that claimed 130 lives.

Shortly after landing here Sunday night, Mr. Obama joined his French
counterpart, President Francois Hollande and the mayor of Paris in honoring the
victims by laying flowers at a makeshift memorial outside the concert hall where
most were killed.

In the wake of the attack, security has been extremely tight, with police
clashing with protesters who took to the streets in defiance of restrictions on
such gatherings. Even as he met with the leaders of India and China whose
countries along with the U.S. are the world's largest producers of green house
gas emissions, the President continued to make the argument that climate change
and terrorism go hand in hand.

OBAMA: This is a turning point. This is the moment we finally determined we
would save our planet.

CORKE: The thinking goes this way. Severe environmental conditions contribute to
a sense of desperation, and that, they say, fuels extremism. There's a military
component as rising seas and severe storms can also alter conflict preparation
and execution.

And there's the financial impact. Climate change means more heat waves, stronger
hurricanes and super storms like Sandy and huge wildfires, all of which cause
U.S. taxpayers billions annually.

The war on terror was among many topics discussed between the President and
Russian President Vladimir Putin. The men met on the sidelines here and talked
about their respective roles in the conflicts in Syria and Ukraine. Meanwhile,
critics slammed the President's insistence that the terror war and climate
change pose similar risks to national security.

CARLY FIORINA (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Well, that's delusional. It is
delusional for President Obama and Hillary Clinton and anyone else to say that
climate change is our near-term, most severe security threat. It is ISIS --
period, followed closely by Iran and perhaps Russia.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

CORKE: Tuesday we expect another very important meeting here at the summit as
presidents, Obama and Erdogan get together here to talk not just about the
climate summit they're also going to talk about the war on terror. Keep in mind
Turkey is a key ally in the battle against ISIS to say nothing of their NATO
partnership. And it's also important to point out Shannon they're involved in a
tense stand-off with the Russians following the shoot-down of that Russian
aircraft that strayed into Turkish airspace -- Shannon.

BREAM: Yes, we'll talk about all of that with the panel coming up. Kevin Corke
-- thank you, live from Paris.

So President Obama is holding fast to his linkage between climate change and
terrorism. Senior political analyst Brit Hume is here tonight with some thoughts
on that. Good evening -- Brit.

BRIT HUME, FOX NEWS SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: Hi -- Shannon.

Given the ghastly events of 17 days ago in Paris, it makes sense that world
leaders would gather there this week. But as you heard, they're not there to
discuss global terrorism but global temperatures. The incongruities only
underscored by President Obama's assertion that this gathering to discuss a
non-binding climate accord is a quote, "rebuke to the terrorists".

That's right, folks, the administration admits, indeed insists that whatever
agreement emerges from this conference will not bind the U.S. To be sure,
President Obama will doubtless continue his current efforts to drive the coal
industry out of business and to discourage the use of other fossil fuels.

But that would be true with or without any Paris climate accord, which by the
way, is not expected to contain any enforcement mechanism. This will be a relief
to a majority of Americans who, while saying climate change is a serious matter
draw that line at taking some of the principal actions proposed to combat it.

A CBS News poll this month found 60 percent opposed to paying higher taxes on
gasoline and 79 percent opposed to higher taxes on electricity. So amid whatever
hoopla the President and the other leaders can womp (ph) up at their Paris
meeting, remember this. Their deal will not be binding, and if it were, it would
have to clear the Senate, which it can't -- Shannon.

BREAM: Well Brit, this begs a lot of the same questions that we saw with the
deal that the President entered into with Iran. There are some similarities.

HUME: There are. Neither is a treaty and therefore neither is binding on future
presidents. In the case of the Iran deal, however, there was money up front.
That is to say, money that was under sanction that would released under that
deal and that Iran would benefit from right away which is one of the reasons so
many people resisted the deal.

In this case, the president would like there to be some money up front for less
developed countries to fight climate change, but that would require an
appropriation by the Congress, and all the Republicans up there say there's no
way he's going to get that. So this deal really is -- he can continue to do
whatever he's doing but it's otherwise not binding.

BREAM: Yes. And some of those countries say without the money they're not
getting --

HUME: Exactly right.

BREAM: All right. Brit -- good to see you always. Thank you.

HUME: Thank you -- Shannon.

Up next, the accused Colorado Springs shooter makes his first appearance in
court. But first, here's what some of our Fox affiliates around the country are
covering tonight.

Fox 32 in Chicago where a suspect is in custody following a threat against the
University Chicago that forced the cancellation of classes today. Authorities
say 21-year-old Javari Dean threatened online to kill 16 white male students or
staff. They believe it was intended as retaliation following last week's video
release of the shooting of Laquan McDonald shot 16 times by a Chicago police
officer.

Fox 4 in Dallas where rain and flooding are blamed for eight deaths in Texas
since Thursday. More than 53,000 homes and businesses remain without electricity
following an ice storm in Oklahoma. Authorities in Kansas say the band of storms
left six dead in that state.

And this is a live look at New York from Fox Five. One of the big stories there
tonight, Amazon releases a promotional video about its proposed drone delivery
service. It says the prime air system will be able to deliver packages weighing
up to five pounds in under 30 minutes. Amazon's trying to get public approval
but faces regulatory hurdles in U.S. and other countries.

That is tonight's live look outside the beltway from SPECIAL REPORT. We'll be
right back.

BREAM: The suspect in Friday's deadly shootings at a Colorado Springs Planned
Parenthood clinic made his first court appearance today.

Correspondent Will Carr is live in Colorado Springs to tell us what happened.
Hello -- Will.

WILL CARR, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Good evening -- Shannon. Today is the first
time that we've seen Robert Lewis Dear since authorities say that he killed
three people and had shot nine others on Friday at a Planned Parenthood here in
Colorado Springs. From the county jail, he appeared by video in front of the
judge wearing a bulletproof vest. He was planked by the same public defender who
represented James Holmes.

Now there's still no official word on motive, but there are reports that he told
investigators after his arrest "no more baby parts" in apparent reference to the
Planned Parenthood controversies playing out on the national stage.

The judge read Dear his rights and he will appear in court again on December 9
to be formally charged. The district attorney also said that he will decide at a
later date if Dear will face death penalty.

While the suspect appeared in court, a police procession drove past the jail
transporting Officer Garrett Swasey's body. Swasey was shot and killed Friday
along with Army veteran Ke'Arre Stewart and Jennifer Markovsky. All three were
parents -- Shannon.

BREAM: Will Carr, live in Colorado Springs. Thank you -- Will.

Jury selection got under way today in the first trial in the police custody
death of an African-American last spring. Correspondent Leland Vittert is in
Baltimore tonight and joins us live. Good evening -- Leland.

LELAND VITTERT, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Good evening -- Shannon. Court broke
just a few minutes ago with the judge saying tomorrow they will be back at it
again for another panel of potential jurors. Each of the 80 or so called before
the judge today indicated that they had heard not only of The Freddie gray case
but also that very controversial $6.4 million settlement the city of Baltimore
made with Freddie Gray's family.

Officer William Porter charged in this case sat stone-faced and taking notes
inside court today. He is charged with involuntary manslaughter and other
charges that could get him 25 years in prison. He is expected to take the stand
in his own defense and call up to 25 character witnesses. His trial comes first
as prosecutors want him to testify against some of his fellow five officers
charged in this case.

The judge has precluded prosecutors from discussing details surrounding the
arrest of Freddie Gray, but says he will allow jurors to see various videos of
Gray after he was cuffed that might shed light on how he was injured. They will
also take a field trip of sorts to see the actual van Gray rode in before police
took him to the hospital with no fatal injuries.

Now while attention surrounding this trial had been high and obviously security
is tight in light of what this case caused in terms of riots back in April, we
have seen precious few protesters. It seems only a handful willing to brave the
cold November rain that has set upon Baltimore tonight. Back to you.

BREAM: Leland -- thank you very much.

Bond has set for $1.5 million for the white Chicago police officer charged with
murder in the death of an African-American teenager. Last week the judge said he
wanted to see the video involving Officer Jason Van Dyke and 17-year-old Laquan
McDonald before deciding on bond. The release of that video prompted several
days of protests in Chicago.

Still ahead, trust but verify, how we decide which polls accurately show who is
winning the race for the White House?

First, things just got harder for National Security Agency to access data on
phone communications from both you and the bad guys.

BREAM: The U.S. embassy in Afghanistan is warning Americans of what it calls
credible reports of an imminent attack in Kabul. The State Department says the
threat is not specific to Americans or the embassy. It's declining to reveal the
source of the threat.

The White House is making changes to the visa waiver program in response to the
Paris terror attacks. The program currently allows people from 38 countries to
visit the U.S. For 90 days without obtaining a visa. Homeland security will now
collect more information from those travelers about past visits to certain
countries. The Republicans in the House say they want to overhaul the program by
year's end.

Tonight some of the people charged with protecting your safety are without a
tool that they say helps French officials track down the perpetrators of the
Paris terror attacks.

Chief intelligence correspondent, Catherine Herridge tells us about the end, for
now at least of the NSA's phone data collection program.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

CATHERINE HERRIDGE, FOX NEWS CHIEF INTELLIGENCE CORRESPONDENT: New legislation
forced the NSA to end its bulk collection of Americans' phone records. The
post-9/11 program tracked terror suspects using so-called metadata. It captures
who you're calling, the length of conversation but not the content.

After the Paris terror attacks where the suspects used encrypted communications,
the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee told "FOX NEWS SUNDAY" that
limiting the NSA comes with a cost.

SEN. RICHARD BURR (R), NORTH CAROLINA: The United States made a real mistake
when they eliminated this program where we could search foreign, known
terrorists' telephone numbers to see if they had talked to anybody in the United
States.

HERRIDGE: The NSA surveillance program became the poster child for government
overreach in 2013 after this misleading statement to Congress.

SEN. RON WYDEN (D), OREGON: Does the NSA collect any type of data at all on
millions or hundreds of millions of Americans?

JAMES CLAPPER, DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE: No, sir.

WYDEN: It does not.

CLAPPER: Not wittingly.

HERRIDGE: And documents leaked by former contractor Edward Snowden left no doubt
the NSA was collecting on Americans. Under new rules, phone records are still
gathered but now held by the phone company requiring court action for a
government search of the database.

A former intelligence officer says the extra step makes disrupting plots that
much harder.

MIKE BARRETT, FORMER DEFENSE DEPARTMENT INTELLIGENCE OFFICER: When you can look
at the patterns of the support networks, that's where people trip up. If you
don't have their entire history, then you're going to miss the fact that they
were up to suspicious activities, downloading certain types of videos, maybe
looking at how to build bombs.

HERRIDGE: Long-time NSA opponents say a more targeted program is the right
approach, because even in Paris, investigators were struggling to determine
which leads to pursue in a mountain of data.

WILLIAM BINNEY, FORMER NSA INTELLIGENCE OFFICER: They talk about overload
through being done by this mass data collection, and that they call it analysis
paralysis.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

HERRIDGE: Other bulk collection programs remain in place including one called
Prism which collects Internet data but has been less controversial because it's
not directly focused on domestic targets. That said, Prism is reported to be a
primary source of raw intelligence for the NSA -- Shannon.

BREAM: Catherine -- thank you.

HERRIDGE: YOU'RE WELCOME: Stocks were off today. The Dow lost 79, the S&P 500
was down 10, Nasdaq fell 19.

Picking the winners and losers -- find out which presidential polls you can
trust to tell you who is leading in race for the White House.

BREAM: All right. If you've ever wondered how we decide which polls to trust
when reporting who's leading in the presidential race, tonight we've got your
answers.

My colleague Bret Baier takes us through the process.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We have Hillary Clinton in a two-way race up 11 points.

BAIER: With just over two months for the first voting in the presidential race,
most people will tell you they're either tired of or confused by polls. And most
will add their sick of the use of polls by all media outlets looking for a way
to measure the race. We do it, too.

Here's what we do and don't use. At FOX News, we do not use online polls. We use
scientific phone and cellphone-based polls with trusted methodology.

CHRIS STIREWALT, FOX NEWS DIGITAL POLITICS EDITOR: If you are invited to go onto
a poll on line and vote for who you think won a debate or who you think the best
candidate is, if you stumble upon that while you were surfing around the
Internet, that isn't even a poll. That's just how many times can you get people
to click a button? And candidates, and we've seen this in every cycle, try to
manipulate those. They urge their supporters go there and vote.

CHRIS ANDERSON, ANDERSON ROBBINS RESEARCH: There are a lot of online polls that
aren't representative. There is a lot of what we call IVR polls where it's an
automated, recorded voice asking people to push a button. The gold standard is
live interviewers calling people on cellphones and landlines. And there are not
a whole lot of those. Most of the major networks do it. We do it.

BAIER: While we rely heavily on polls, there hasn't been a great track record
when it comes to elections, especially when it comes to recent elections with
conservatives. The most recent example is Kentucky. The gubernatorial race down
there, the major poll is the Bluegrass poll.

Heading in, Democrat Jack Conway had 45 percent to the Republican Matt Bevins'
40 percent. But take a look what happened on Election Day. The real results,
Bevin 53 percent, Conway 44 percent, not even close. And the Bluegrass poll is a
respected poll in Kentucky.

DARON SHAW, UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS: When you look after the fact and try to
ascertain what went wrong, a lot of times you have to crack open the internals.
Were there too many members of a particular group? Was there a partisan skew of
turnout that wasn't captured in the poll?

STIREWALT: The assumptions about what the electorate is going to look like
affects how pollsters are weighting their samples. Who they expect to see turn
out to vote effects what pollsters put in on the front side. And maybe they had
the wrong assumptions.

BAIER: As you know, we are inundated with polls in the presidential race, really
one after the other. Here's the latest Quinnipiac poll one in Iowa. Plus or
minus four percent, the margin there, with Trump in the lead, Cruz essentially
tied in second over Carson in third.

Nationally you can see the ABC-"Washington Post" poll as a slightly bigger lead
for Trump. But take a look at this, the margin of error plus or minus six
percent. The latest FOX News poll had similar results with a slightly bigger
lead for Trump, plus or minus 4.5 percent.

Now, people say, what does this mean as far as how many people are involved in
these surveys, in these polls? Well, in the FOX poll it's 406 GOP primary
voters. Still, again, 4.5 percent margin of error. Some may ask, why does 406
equal a fair cross-section of this race? Well, here's why.

SHAW: I don't need to drain a bowl of soup or a vat of soup to determine the
temperature of the soup. All I need to do is take a spoonful. As long as that
spoonful is representative of the entire pot of soup, I can get a really good
impression of the flavor, the temperature, et cetera.

So what we do in polling, the key, of course, is random selection of
individuals. And the more people you randomly select, the more likely you are to
uncover opinions, attitudes, vote preferences that are held by lots of people.

STIREWALT: There is some evidence over time that the Republicans are
underrepresented in polls. The Republicans, perhaps, are less willing than
Democrats to participate in polls before Election Day. In 2014 cycle, one of the
reasons for the polling debacle in so many cases was there was an assumption
that the electorate would exist on the line somewhere between the 2010 Tea Party
wave and the 2012 reelection of Barack Obama. As it turned out, the pollsters
were wrong. They thought the electorate would look about halfway in between or
maybe even a little closer to 2012. In fact the electorate looked very much like
2010 and resulted in a nine-seat pickup for the Republicans in the Senate.

BAIER: There are so many polls in the presidential race, they're coming one
after another, it helps to look at the average of all recent polls. We use the
Real Clear Politics average here at FOX. It averages all the recent polls in the
presidential race, and there you see it, the breakdown. There are also other
sites that do this as well, an average. There is no margin of error, and this is
simply an average, but it gives you a sense of the big picture because there are
so many different polls and they all have a different cross-section of people
surveyed.

ANDERSON: The polls are a snap shot of a moment in time. They're not a crystal
ball that can predict the future for you. They can give you clues and help you
understand the contours of the landscape, but events inevitably intervene and
change where the public is.

BAIER: In Washington, Bret Baier, FOX News.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

BREAM: President Obama says the climate change conference in Paris san act is an
act of defiance toward terrorists. We'll talk about that with the panel when we
come back.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, (D) PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Nearly 200 nations have
assembled here this week, a declaration that for all the challenges that we
face, the growing threat of climate change could define the contours of this
century more dramatically than any other.

REP. MICHAEL MCCAUL, (R) TEXAS: I hope while he's talking about climate change
in Paris he's also talking about how can the NATO forces and the U.S. coalition
forces and possibly the Russians work to defeat and destroy is.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BREAM: Let's talk about it with our panel now that the president in Paris at the
conference, syndicated columnist George Will, Juan Williams, columnist with "The
Hill," and syndicated columnist Charles Krauthammer. All right, George, I'll
start with you. The president said having this gathering to discuss climate
change there in Paris is an act of defiance against the terrorists. Your take?

GEORGE WILL, SYNDICATED COLUMNIST: The people of ISIS, wherever they are in
northern Iraq, are what, saying, oh, we've been rebuked? This is part of the
problem that everything is said to confirm global warming. And global warming is
now said to cause everything else. So it's a theory that can't be refuted, which
means it's no longer a scientific theory.

The amazing thing is that never in history, anywhere ever, has all the powers of
the modern state supplemented by mass education, supplemented by mass media,
supplemented by journalism and entertainment, been all employed for 30 years to
propagandize about this sort of thing, about global warming and all the rest, to
almost no effect. Fewer Americans carpool today to work than carpooled in 1980.
SUVs have never been a larger proportion of the vehicles being sold in this
country. The American people may profess occasionally to be concerned about
global warming, but their behavior tells you that none of this propaganda has
had any effect.

BREAM: And Juan, when Brit had his commentary earlier in the show, he pointed
out the fact that when you ask people about real life impacts on them, would you
pay more for gasoline, would you pay more for electricity, the percentages are
up to 60 and 70 percent of those who oppose that if it would in some way
allegedly counteract climate change. So a lot of people just don't want to get
on board, as George pointed out as well.

JUAN WILLIAMS, SENIOR EDITOR, "THE HILL": Yes, I think without leadership,
without being able to persuade people the importance of the issue, there is
almost no base here. If you look at the poll numbers, it's very low. It's not a
priority for the American people. And I think you see this reflected in
Congress, especially in the Republican majority in Congress. They have no
interest in dealing with this issue, dealing with cap and trade. That issue is
basically stalled in a Republican Congress.

So the president is trying to offer some vision. He's trying to use executive
orders, changing regulations with the EPA, trying to use his stature as the
leader of the free world to rally some kind of international coalition that will
say we will do something, because the Congress is not going to do anything at
the moment.

BREAM: Well, and you mentioned how much people do or don't care about this. In
polling, our most recent FOX News polling on the most important issues facing
the country, and this is from mid-November, terrorism is at the top of the list
firmly with 24 percent. You got to go further down a long ways to find climate
change, and it's three percent, Charles. So why this continued campaign by the
administration and hundreds of leaders around the world gathering in Paris?

CHARLES KRAUTHAMMER, SYNDICATED COLUMNIST: Because this president lives in a
world of his idealistic, if you want to be favorable to it, benign about it,
idealistic and deluded undergraduate imaginations. This is about if the League
of Nations and the U.N. and everything in between hadn't happened.

Remember, Obama had a summit in Washington a few years ago to end nuclear
proliferation. He thought it was a great event. I remember the one announcement
of a success was that Canada had given away some extra surplus stuff, as if the
threat of the world is from Canada. He lives in a world where people get
together, reasonable, educated, Harvard law school people from all over the
world, and agree on futuristic designs that mean nothing, like the League of
Nations, like the U.N. But we have learned something since then. He has learned
nothing.

And this global warming is the same thing. Nothing will come of it because it's
not a treaty, it will never get through the Senate. It's not going to be binding
on anybody. And the great announcement he made when he was in China about the
breakthrough with China is that we would radically reduce our emissions by 2025
and China would begin its reductions in 2030, and he thought that was a triumph.
This is wonderful. He said, what greater rejection of those who would tear down
our world than the meeting. How about a serious air campaign over Syria? How
about destroying their oil infrastructure for a start? But that doesn't occur to
him.

WILLIAMS: I just think it is a defiance. I disagree with you and with George on
this. I think the ISIS people want us to be afraid. They don't want world
leaders coming to Paris. I think that's why you see all that security. So in a
sense it is, I'm sure they're not sitting there saying, oh, gosh, President
Obama and President Hollande got together. It's a rebuke of our standards. But
you know what, they defied the fear that would say don't go there.

BREAM: But do you think that they sit back and think, they've got us? They're
right. This climate change has driven us to chop people's heads off?

WILLIAMS: No, that's not the issue.

BREAM: No, that's what the administration says is the issue.

WILLIAMS: In my mind, you can do two things at once. You either do terrorism or
you do climate change.

KRAUTHAMMER: But Obama is the one who connected them, that's the point. It's a
rebuke against terrorism. I would agree that terrorism and climate change are
different. But Obama pretends that this so visionary that it actually is a way
to rebuke. The idea that the terrorist attacked Paris because they wanted to
prevent the leaders of the world --

WILLIAMS: They want to scare us.

KRAUTHAMMER: -- the rise in the ocean in 100 years is simply absurd.

WILL: And the idea that people are driven to desperation and hence to terrorism
by climate change neglects another competing fact. There are 1 billion people on
this planet who have no electricity. I would think that might make them more
irritable, if you will, than climate change.

BREAM: Well, Juan, and how do you answer critics who say, as Charles pointed
out, that China has been less committal, and India and some others, with very
specific guidelines. We're committing I think to cutting greenhouse gas
emissions by 26 to 28 percent within a very short timeframe where they're saying
they're going to work on it. They're thinking about it. There are critics who
say we have tougher standards here and they don't commit to the regulations
there, manufacturers and companies are going to want to go to places where there
is lax enforcement like China.

WILLIAMS: I think the bigger issue is we don't see that the Chinese is enforcing
the deal that's there right now, even. So the question is about enforcement. You
have got to have it, otherwise it's not real. But the larger point, I think, is
that the United States, which has, of course, historically the coal industry has
been so big here and we ship it overseas, has to show some leadership. Otherwise
these other countries, they're never going to do anything. They have no reason.

KRAUTHAMMER: But here's Obama showing leadership. The Chinese in the first nine
months of the year have been licensing four coal-fired plants a week, and we are
closing ours. So how is that helping the globe?

BREAM: And there are numerous battles, obviously court battles and others going
on, George, to that end about these EPA regulations and just how far the power
can go.

WILL: It's over climate change that Congress will finally find their footing and
say that executive power starts here. They can do that.

BREAM: All right, we'll see.

Gentlemen, thank you. Up next Bret Baier in New York with an all-star business
panel on the state of the economy.

BREAM: Welcome back. We are going to New York now where Bret Baier has some
special guests.

BAIER: Thanks, Shannon. So it is cyber Monday which, of course, follows black
Friday and small business Saturday. I didn't know that, but we are going to talk
about the state of the U.S. economy tonight. Joining me here from New York, the
FOX Business Network, Maria Bartiromo, Stuart Varney, and Trish Regan. Thanks
for being here. This is an exciting time, holiday sales. We had the National
Retail Federation put out a graph of the projected sales. And they say it's
going to go up 3.7 percent this year, $630 billion. On average over the last 10
years up about 2.5 percent for holiday sales. But for retailers, this is a huge
time, Maria.

MARIA BARTIROMO, FOX BUSINESS HOST: It is a huge time. This is really dictating
the entire year for most retailers. We know that retail sales is about two
thirds of the overall economic story in the U.S. So this is a critical time of
the year for the retail sector and for the overall economy.

Frankly what I have been seeing, Bret, is it has been underwhelming. Of course
online did better than brick and mortar. We would expect that given the
continued acceptance of online shopping. So that's done a little better, things
like Apple, Amazon. But for the most part, most retailers did see
disappointment. The good news is that means in the next couple of weeks we will
probably see even more discounting.

BAIER: So is this economy soft? Is that a word to use, Stuart?

STUART VARNEY, FOX BUSINESS HOST: I think it's bumbling along. Consumers have
more cash from much lower gas prices, but they are not spending it in the stores
the way they used to.

I think you have got to take count of Obamacare. Enormous deductibles, very high
costs of healthcare, I think that's eating into the disposable cash which is a
lot of consumers have. The turning point in my opinion this year is the turning
not so much away from the retail stores, bricks and mortar, but towards online
shopping. This is the year when online came of age. And Amazon is absolutely
leading the way. It's a real thrust to go shopping online as opposed to standing
in the line at the mall.

BAIER: Trish?

TRISH REGAN, FOX BUSINESS HOST: I think there is an excitement, though, for a
lot of Americans to stand in the line at the mall. It's a tradition, black
Friday. A lot of people, I'm not in this camp, but a lot of people like to go
shopping on black Friday and be part of that festive holiday cheer which
includes lots of sales.

They are having an opportunity to do it online more so. That's good. But I was
pretty disappointed in the lack of numbers that we saw the National Retail
Federation in terms of Friday's sales. They came in roughly $1 billion dollars
less than expected.

And, you know, I think that that, Bret, really speaks to some of the softness we
are seeing overall in the economy. On the one hand you can see part of it people
don't want to deal with those lines. I think it's telling you something else. I
agree with you, Maria, we are going to see a soft season, and it's because we
are in a very anemic economic growth environment and people aren't feeling
confident and good and they're not out there shopping.

VARNEY: Maybe it's a cultural thing. Maybe it's my age. I don't know.

(LAUGHTER)

VARNEY: But I have seen door buster sales and I've seen an awful lot of lines
and I have tried to park for eternity and I can't do it. Maybe I'm turning away,
like a lot of people, away from the actual standing and buying it.

BAIER: Look for the amazon. They put out the video of the new drone that is
going to be delivering packages around the country. And that's really quite
something. That could be the future of delivery of service.

BARTIROMO: It looks interesting. It could only hold five pounds, so small
packages for sure. But I think overall what you are see something a soft
economy, Bret. You really are. You're seeing people worried about their jobs,
worried about their neighbor's jobs. And as a result they are sitting on cash.

I think Obamacare is the right point to make because small business is getting
crushed. You know the rules. If you have got 50 employees, you are forced to
offer benefits, healthcare benefits. And if you can't afford it or you don't
offer those benefits, you will pay a fine. A lot of small businesses are
choosing, you know what, I will pay the fine because I cannot afford to pay all
of these benefits to employees with just 50 employees.

BAIER: Talking about jobs, Trish. You have got the look over the past few years
in quarters and the unemployment numbers. And obviously they have ticked down,
but so has the number of people who are looking for work, who are not even in
the workforce.

REGAN: I'll tell you, five percent unemployment just ain't what it used to be,
Bret, because back in the day that would have been really good. But five percent
isn't so good anymore. And there is a few things going on. One, you mentioned
basically the number of people that could be working that aren't working. We are
seeing a labor participation rate that's quite weak and it hasn't been this weak
since the 1970s.

The other things is that wages have not been going up. We had a little bit of an
uptick last time around but they are not growing enough, which is crazy when you
think about it because the Fed has been throwing everything it possibly can at
this economy to try to get a little inflation, and we're not really seeing any.
So people aren't making this much money.

VARNEY: This is the United States of America. This is a vigorous, dynamic
capitalist society. But in the last seven years we've never seen a single year
where you have four percent or five percent growth. We have not seen it. In
America that's extremely unusual. If you turn that around, if you did get that
kind of growth, you would see a different attitude on the part of the consumer
and the shopper.

So look in the crystal ball here, Maria, 2016, we're in the middle of a
presidential race, is the economy slowly getting to a place where it's chugging
along a little bit better than it is now?

BARTIROMO: I think chugging along is a fine phrase for that. That's OK. But
that's really not where we should be at this point in the cycle, in the recovery
cycle. The fact is that the manufacturing part of this economy is already in
recession. You have seen a huge collapse in the price of commodities, a huge
collapse in anything really related to trade. Exports are down. And many people
expect 2016 to be an all out recession. So that's going to be a major issue for
the next president to have to deal with.

BAIER: Maria, Stuart, Trish, thank you as always. Shannon, we'll send it back to
you in D.C.

BREAM: All right, thank you, Bret.

Well, the airways in early voting states are filling up with political ads, and
we have a new one you don't want to miss. That's next.

BREAM: Finally tonight, as we wish SENATOR Bernie Sanders a quick recovery from
a medical procedure he underwent today, we thought you might like to see his
newest ad. And like the rest of his candidacy, it is unique.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

(MUSIC)

(END VIDEO CLIP)

(LAUGHTER)

BREAM: How do you think that is going to play in Iowa? Hey, it got our
attention. Thanks for watching SPECIAL REPORT. I'm Shannon Bream. Goodnight from
Washington. ON THE RECORD is up next.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 113001cb.254

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            November 30, 2015 Monday

          SHOW: FOX ON THE RECORD WITH GRETA VAN SUSTEREN 7:00 PM EST

G.O.P. Candidates Slam Obama Over Climate Change; NSA Bulk Phone Data Collection
Program Ends; Obama Tells Turkey to Seal Syrian Border; New Batch of Clinton
Emails Released

BYLINE: Greta Van Susteren, Ed Henry, Catherine Herridge, Kevin Ozebek, Kevin
Corke

GUESTS: Marco Rubio, Duncan Hunter, Rick Klein, A.B. Stoddard, Candace Miller

SECTION: NEWS; International

LENGTH: 7700  words


[19:00:05] GRETA VAN SUSTEREN, FOX NEWS HOST: Tonight ON THE RECORD, Senator
Marco Rubio and he has something to say about President Obama. The
commander-in-chief has said there is no greater threat to our planet than
climate change. And today the president is in Paris urging world leaders to come
together to focus on climate change. The president on multiple occasions has
said that global warming is a critical issue.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: No challenge, no challenge poses a
greater threat to future generations than climate change.

The growing threat of climate change could define the contours of this century
more dramatically than any other.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAN SUSTEREN: Right now Florida senator and 2016 G.O.P. presidential candidate
Marco Rubio goes ON THE RECORD from New Hampshire.

Good evening, senator.

SEN. MARCO RUBIO, (R-FL) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Good evening.

VAN SUSTEREN: Senator, first, on the issue of climate change. Do you believe
that the climate change is the result of man-made or is it man-made in any way?

RUBIO: Well, first of all, the climate changing has always been changing. There
has never been a time when the climate hasn't been changing. And what percentage
of that is due to man's activity is not something there is a consensus on. There
is -- 90 something percent of the time to say that man-made activity.

VAN SUSTEREN: What do you think?

RUBIO: Well, again, I'm a policymaker and my job is to go through the different
solutions that they present to us. And I can tell you that all the changes they
are presenting to us would do nothing even according to the scientists would do
nothing to change our climate, especially in the United States but would have a
dramatic impact on our economy.

So as a policymaker, I refuse to support initiatives that will do nothing to
impact the environment or the climate, but would have a devastating impact on
our economy.

VAN SUSTEREN: So as I understand if you had sufficient information presented to
you to show that climate change exists and it's the result of something that man
is doing or women are doing, whatever, is that you would, perhaps, have a
different view, your policy would be different?

RUBIO: Yes. But scientists have already said that in terms of climate
sensitivity, there is not a global consensus on that. And even now there is a
dispute about what the target should be. Some, you know -- the target being said
by some is 2-degree Celsius change, that they think that two more degrees and a
warming that that would somehow trigger some terrible global impact.

But they are now -- scientist saying that's basically an arbitrary number.
There's no science behind it. It's just an easy to define political goal. That's
what's so nebulous about this whole debate. Meanwhile, as a policymaker, I'm
being presented with options that would have a real impact on our economy and it
will have an impact immediately in making America uncompetitive.

I don't support anything that will make America uncompetitive, especially if it
doesn't have any sort of environmental benefit on the back side of it

VAN SUSTEREN: All right. Do you disagree with the president saying that it's
very important to future generations?

RUBIO: Well, that's not what he is saying. What he is saying is that it's the
greatest threat facing future generations and that I don't agree with. I think
the greatest threat facing future generations domestically is $19 trillion debt
for which there is no answer in place. And a national security apparatus in this
country that continues to deteriorate at a time when the world is growing more
dangerous.

Whether it's radical Jihadists or Russia or China or North Korea or Iran's
nuclear ambitions. The world is growing increasingly dangerous and we are going
to be cutting a trillion dollars out of the Defense Department and, we,
including some Republicans have voted to weaken our intelligence gathering
capabilities.

VAN SUSTEREN: Over the weekend, Senator Ted Cruz has accused you of attempting
to mislead voters in an effort to slow down conservatives coming together for
him, for Senator Cruz. He said that in Iowa and is in reference to a super PAC
ad. Do you have a response to Senator Cruz?

RUBIO: Well, I don't have anything to do with those groups. I can tell you my
position and that is that I stand strongly on behalf of the ability of this
government to gather intelligence on our adversaries and our enemies especially
terrorist, but other nation states. Those keep us safer.

And there are Republicans, including Senator Cruz that have voted to weaken
those programs. That's just the part of the record. There's nothing personal.

And the fact of the matter is that today we do not know as much as we once did
about potential adversaries partially due to the disclosures made by traitor
named Edward Snowden and part of it due to presidential directives and even this
law that was recently passed that has cancelled the metadata collection program,
which means that if God forbid, there were terrorist attack in America tomorrow,
we would not be able to gather the phone records of individuals that might be
part of that plot in a time effective way.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right. Well, when you criticize him for not supporting -- the
Super PAC for not supporting the law, which now allows bulk data not to be
collected he fired back and said that you are for amnesty. That's -- now he is
going after you for amnesty?

RUBIO: Well, Senator Cruz's position on immigration is not much different than
mine. He has supported in the past and has said he is still open to supporting,
legalizing people that are in this country illegally.

What I have tried to do is find a reasonable solution to a very serious problem
that continues to plague us. And it's very clear we can't do that in a
comprehensive bill.

That, in no way, takes away from the fundamental argument that today our
intelligence gathering capabilities have been weakened by both presidential
directives, the disclosures made by a trader and also a law that was passed that
unfortunately some Republicans supported.

[19:05:02] VAN SUSTEREN: Senator Rubio, you said you'd never -- you are talking
to some pastors that you'd never change your position on traditional marriage
and on life?

What do you do if you are elected president and your personal views are in
conflict with what may be the law?

RUBIO: Well, we have a way in this country to change laws we don't agree with.
That's called -- whether it's the court system issuing a new president that
overrules an old president or passing laws in this country.

What I have said is that an individual -- if some individual is ordered by --
compelled by government to violate something that violates their personal
conscious, they should not be forced by law to do that. For example, no one
should be forced to preside over same-sex marriage if it violates their faith.
And I'm not sure any people are arguing they should be force to do that. But we
live in a country where we have freedom and a Republic. And what we are able to
change existing laws, whether it's the court systems ruling differently in the
future or being able to pass laws in the case of other matters.

VAN SUSTEREN: Senator, thank you for joining us. And enjoy New Hampshire. I know
you are spending a lot of time there as in Iowa, too. Thank you, sir.

RUBIO: Thank you.

VAN SUSTEREN: Other 2016 G.O.P. presidential candidates are critical to
president that he is taking on climate change.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

CARLY FIORINA (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: It is delusional for President Obama
and Hillary Clinton and anyone else to say that climate change is our near term
most severe security threat.

SEN. TED CRUZ, (R-TX) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: They think essentially your SUV in
the driveway is a greater threat to our security than is ISIS.

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We have large groups of people that
want to blow up every one of our cities, that want to destroy our country, that
want to kill our people and he is worried about global warming.

CRUZ: It's gotten to the point where I don't think "Saturday Night Live" can
even parody this president anymore.

GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE, (R-NJ) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: For the president to be over
there talking about climate change today quite frankly is insulting.

TRUMP: It's one of the dumbest things I have ever seen.

FIORINA: It is delusional. It is ISIS, period.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

VAN SUSTEREN: The president saying climate change and especially rising seas is
a threat to our land security, our economic infrastructure and the safety and
health of the American people.

And many 2016 candidates interpreting this that his comments mean tackling
climate change is more critical than defeating ISIS.

The ON THE RECORD political panel is here. "ABC News" political director Rick
Klein and from "The Hill," A.B. Stoddard.

First to you, Rick.

A poll done by "ABC" and "Washington Post" said 63 percent of all Americans
including Democrats and Republicans say the global warming is a serious threat.
Is this an important issue that Republicans are to be paying attention to as it
relates to the race in 2016?

RICK KLEIN, POLITICAL DIRECTOR, ABC NEWS: There is disconnect here between
people suggesting and feeling that there is a threat and wanting to do something
about it. And that's I think is sticking in this poll.

Yes, you had about two thirds of people -- there's two thirds of people saying
it is a serious problem in that poll. But you also have less than half saying
that they want the federal government to do more about it which is actually a
lower number than under the George W. Bush administration.

So I think President Obama has been making a case right now that the public has
not bought right now. That's why you see Republicans jumping on this and
pointing this out and saying, look, this is what the real threat is.

I think the public is actually primed to listen. They just haven't -- they
haven't heard the argument connected the way that they need it to make an action
item.

VAN SUSTEREN: A.B., it is politics, but Senator Ted Cruz says that President
Obama is more worried about SUV in your driveway is a greater threat than ISIS.
I think that's probably a stretch don't you?

(CROSSTALK)

A.B. STODDARD, THE HILL: Yes, there's no doubt. I mean, he is counting on this
sort of apathy or fear actually among the electorate that in a very sluggish
recovery after a recession, once people have learned about the cost of
mitigating climate change, they don't want to -- the government to invest in
that. They are afraid it will raise their food bills, their heating bills, their
cooling bills, their gas bills, everything.

And so, it's easy to say look at this president. He is over, just after the
attacks in Paris, having a climate change conference. This is so goofy. Why is
it such a priority for President Obama when we are under a serious threat. It's
an easy, sort of hyperbolic, rhetorical tool to use in the primary campaign.

Realistically, it's not so great in the general election, though. Many Americans
are afraid of the long term effects of climate change and they are happening
much more faster than we originally anticipated.

And the problem with the timing of this conference is if you plan a conference
no matter what happens, you can't cancel it. I mean, it's a big intractable
problem you have to keep working on it. And sometimes it comes around on the
calendar right after something terrible has happened.

VAN SUSTEREN: And look at the numbers, I guess Rick, within the Republican
Party. I think it's only about 13 percent are concerned with the global warming
as a political issue. So there aren't that many Republicans if you are trying to
win the primary. And the president, I guess to soften A.B.'s problem about the
timing of the conference. He did walk around Paris with President Hollande to
the areas where the massacre occurred.

KLEIN: As you would have to. I mean, it seemed appropriate. And I think the
president even points that out and said the fact that we are here is a statement
to the terrorist.

But A.B. is right. The timing is the timing. I think most people feel like the
government, even the president can walk and chew gum at the same time. The
rhetoric, though, for the Republicans is difficult because for a long time it's
been you deny climate change. You deny climate change. Fewer and fewer, even
Republicans are believing that that's a plausible answer.

[19:10:00] You see people like Senator Rubio making a bit of a turn saying it's
not clear to me that we can do anything about it. That's a little bit different.
That's a little bit nuance. But you are seeing it play again this very political
backdrop in much different ways in the two primaries.

VAN SUSTEREN: And I should add Senator Lindsey Graham says that he is not a
scientist, his grades show it and he accepts what the scientists say is a very
sort of famously at one of the debates.

OK, Rick, A.B., stick around, please.

This is a "Fox News" alert. The NSA's bulk collection of telephone data is now
over. The agency's authority to grab that data expiring yesterday. Critics of
the new law insist the now expired authority has help tracked down terrorists
including the recent Paris terrorist attacks.

So the big question, tonight, without this program in place, are Americans,
meaning you, at greater risk of terrorism?

"Fox News" chief intelligence correspondent Catherine Herridge is here.

Catherine, I guess it does -- I mean, did this program make a difference?

CATHERINE HERRIDGE, FOX NEWS CHIEF INTELLIGENCE CORRESPONDENT: Well, it made a
difference, but to be clear this program has not ended. What's ended is the
NSA's ability to hold the state and now withheld by the phone companies and the
government has to get court permission to search that database.

VAN SUSTEREN: Unless there's an emergency in which they can bypass in the courts
permission so they can still get it?

HERRIDGE: They can still get it. The larger issue is whether we are doing smart
collection. And what I mean by that is whether this bulk collection is really
the most efficient way to look for terror suspects because remember in France
they knew who these people were. They had broad powers to collect the data, but
they still were not able to disrupt the plot, or whether we will be better off
doing more targeted collection which is what critics of the NSA support.

VAN SUSTEREN: So is this -- are the critics saying and that this is really not a
big difference. I mean, they can still collect the data.

(CROSSTALK)

HERRIDGE: Right.

VAN SUSTEREN: They can still collect the data.

HERRIDGE: Correct.

VAN SUSTEREN: And they have to get a court, a warrant to get it because the
telephone companies are holding it. They have the warrant, but they don't even
need a warrant if it's an emergency.

HERRIDGE: Right.

VAN SUSTEREN: And then, of course, France had it and it didn't work.

HERRIDGE: The issue is whether we are doing smart collection. And what you hear
from analysts is what they call analysis paralysis, which is that there is just
this sea of data and you cannot find that thread quickly enough to disrupt these
plots based on the volume that you are dealing with. Critics say the answer is
targeted collection. But what we are going to find out now after Paris is
whether this subtle change in accessing the data really makes the difference in
our level of disruption.

VAN SUSTEREN: Aren't terrorists a little bit smarter now than to use these cell
phones? Isn't it just the rest of us who are using them?

HERRIDGE: What you see with this kind of collection, the metadata which is who
you call and the length of the call, not the content is a network for a suspect.
Who is the support network; who is renting the car; buying the chemicals;
finding the explosives? This is what you are going to find and which is what
they found in France after the fact, but it's not necessarily going to lead you
to the operatives, who have the training and the know how to use these encrypted
communications.

VAN SUSTEREN: So more investigative after the fact than preventative.

HERRIDGE: Correct.

VAN SUSTEREN: Catherine, thank you.

HERRIDGE: You are welcome.

VAN SUSTEREN: And, today, President Obama in Paris with other world leaders
discussing the climate. But that didn't stop the president from meeting on the
sidelines with Russian President Vladimir Putin to talk terror.

"Fox News" White House correspondent Kevin Corke is traveling with the president
in Paris.

Kevin?

KEVIN CORKE, FOX NEWS WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Greta, you are right.
Obviously, they want to talk about climate change. But quickly we are told by
White House officials the conversation, as you pointed out, did shift as the two
men talked about the ongoing crisis in and around Syria.

As you know, Putin has been a long-time supporter of the Assad regime. President
Obama says he has to go. If there is going to be a peaceful transition of power
in that country. Now the president we are told by the White House did also
express regret at the shoot down of a Russian aircraft last week by Turkey's
military.

They were allegedly in Turkish air space and that have obviously cause a great
deal of consternation in and around the region. In fact, the Russians unleashed
a wave of sanctions against Turkey. Now this evening we also learned that the
president is out and about having a very public dinner with his French
counterpart Francois Hollande.

The two men, again, in a show of defiance against terrorism eating out in a nice
restaurant. The two men after the pleasantries will no doubt, Greta, talk about
a great deal of topics including what's happening in Syria. And maybe just a bit
about getting Russia on board in the war against ISIS.

They would argue we are already flying sorties over Syria. But I think it's
pretty fair to say that the conventional wisdom is the Russians are doing more
to help the Assad regime than they are doing to try to destroy ISIS.

Greta?

VAN SUSTEREN: Kevin, thank you.

And as President Obama point to Donald Trump, trying to seal off a border, and
no it's not our border with Mexico.

"Wall Street Journal" reporting that the White House claims it is vital for
Turkey to seal off its 60-mile border with Syria.

The White House claims it will keep terrorists out and cut off black market oil
flowing out.

Joining us from the Capitol, Congressman Duncan Hunter who is also a United
States marine.

Congressman, your thoughts about the president telling Turkey at least we are
hearing that the word telling Turkey that that's what's being done to seal off
its border.

[19:15:07] DUNCAN HUNTER (R), CALIFORNIA CONGRESSMAN: At least President Obama
has asked for securing somebody's border. And at least he realizes that it does
some good. I mean, that's the irony here. And it's kind of funny that we can't
secure ours, we are not going to stop international terrorists from coming
across our southern border, but we know it's going to work for Turkey.

So that's number one.

(CROSSTALK)

VAN SUSTEREN: Isn't that an admission that we can seal our border. If the
president says Turkey can seal its border, the 60 miles, isn't that an admission
that if we really wanted to we could seal ours?

HUNTER: Oh, absolutely. But more importantly, I would say, Greta, it's an
admission that it actually works. That securing the border and not building a
wall like Trump is talking about, not closing the border but securing it.

So you don't have terrorist. You are not going to have Syrians or Turks or
Palestinians or Pakistanis coming across American southern borders and sitting
here in the U.S. until they are told to attack U.S. malls or U.S. stadiums.

So, yes, securing the borders works. The president has now admitted it. That
doesn't mean he is going to do anything about it. Number two, Turkey should
secure its borders. They need to be a good NATO ally. And what that means is
they are the entrance point for all these bad guys to go up into Europe and all
the Europeans that are bad guys to go down into Syria. They all transit through
Turkey. So if Turkey wants to be a serious NATO ally, then they have to secure
the border.

VAN SUSTEREN: Are we at war -- this is a simple question. Are we at war with
ISIS in your mind?

HUNTER: Yes.

VAN SUSTEREN: Well, then why hasn't Congress declared war on ISIS. The
constitution actually gives Congress the power to do it. It's not even the
president can do that. Why don't you all just declare a war on ISIS?

HUNTER: You are absolutely right, Greta. And here's why we actually could, too.
ISIS is not al Qaeda who operated from different places, desperate places. There
was no actual land mass that al Qaeda held on to, right? ISIS owns land. There
is an actual battle front when it comes to ISIS. There is enemy lines when it
comes to ISIS.

This is different than Iraq or Afghanistan, where you were kind of fighting
shadow terrorists that pop up, kill you or try to, then go, you know, hide
again. You can actually declare war on them because by being the Islamic state,
they actually have a state. They hold land and we are.

There are bills. I am on one of them, where we are saying, hey, we should
declare war. In fact, Adam Kinzinger, who is on your show, it's his bill. I'm on
it. In fact, many other veterans are on it, too. We are trying to do this --

(CROSSTALK)

VAN SUSTEREN: What's the hold up?

HUNTER: It's not a popular thing in this Congress. It's just not popular.

VAN SUSTEREN: Well, I mean, I can -- you know, with the whole nation worried
about ISIS coming over our border or overstaying visas or sneaking in here or
being radicalized home-grown. It seems to me that if you put that up for a vote,
you might see a lot of members of Congress deciding that maybe we should declare
it. If we are at war with ISIS, why don't we just stay --

(CROSSTALK)

HUNTER: Which we are, because here is what you have here, Greta. You have what I
would call the Rand Paul Syndrome of not wanting to do anything, of being scared
of what happened in Afghanistan and being cared with what happened with, you
know, previous wars in the Middle East. You have the Rand Paul Syndrome right.

VAN SUSTEREN: Wasn't it in some way though we could invoke article 5 of our
NATO, and -- if there is a war, France has already declared war on ISIS, if we
declare war on ISIS, if we invoke article 5 of NATO, then it's getting everybody
together to fight ISIS.

HUNTER: Which you are also talking ground troops in, Greta. I mean, that's a
fairly touchy subject. You are talking about 100,000 people probably or more,
having to go in and actually fight a -- you know, I would call it a
quasi-conventional terrorist war.

VAN SUSTEREN: I don't know if it means ground troops. I'm just saying that first
start with everyone to sort of admit the obvious. And that would be a good start
and get everybody at least mobilized thinking, at least talking, but that's just
me.

Anyway, Congressman, thank you for joining us.

HUNTER: I agree with you.

VAN SUSTEREN: Thank you, sir.

HUNTER: Thank you, Greta.

And just in, a new batch of Secretary Hillary Clinton's emails just released.
What's in those emails? Ed Henry is here next.

Also, a U.S. visa program coming under fire with fears it could allow terrorist
to come into the United States unrestricted. One congresswoman is trying to end
that. Representative Candice Miller goes ON THE RECORD, coming up.

[19:22:45] VAN SUSTEREN: This is a "Fox News" alert. A brand new batch of
Secretary Hillary Clinton's emails just released by the State Department. Now,
this latest email dump nearly 8,000 pages from Secretary Clinton's private email
account now during the time she was secretary of state.

"Fox News" chief White House correspondent Ed Henry is here with what's in the
newest release.

Ed?

ED HENRY, FOX NEWS CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, good to see you,
Greta. What the headline really is that in this latest batch, you mention there
is the most pages of any email dump we have seen so far, there is another 328
emails that have now been deemed classified.

What's significant about that is that brings the total if you put all these
email dumps together to 999 emails with some sort of classified information in
them.

Now, of course, the Clinton camp has said again and again that they have been
deemed classified after the fact they were not marked classified at the time,
but her critics have been pointing out for some time and I suspect that will
continue after this document dump that as secretary of state she should have
known there were sensitive information in here.

Another interesting development tonight in some of these emails is we see one of
her top aides Philippe Reines, who we've heard a lot about or former spokesman,
was consulting with some interesting people about her concussion in late 2012.
There were health concerns.

I remember at the time, she was supposed to testify before the Benghazi
committee and they were trying to figure out what had happened to her. And
Philippe Reines has reached out to Roger Goodell, the NFL commissioner. We've
seen some emails about that to figure out how serious concussions can be. And
also reached out to doctor and former Senator Bill Frist. You see him right
there.

We don't have an email response from Goodell, but we do have an email response
from Bill Frist. You get to see it there. And what he says in part is he would
be more than happy to help consult on her concussion and also, you know, go
public and say anything because he said he loved Hillary Clinton, even though he
was a Republican who had clashed with her on some issues.

The point of it is that Philippe Reines is saying these emails to Hillary
Clinton that he wanted to consult these prominent figures. He wanted to push
back on some "Fox" contributors like Laura Ingraham, John Bolton, who is on the
show a lot who had said at the time that Hillary Clinton might have been faking
that injury and that the concussion wasn't that serious because she didn't want
to testify before the Benghazi panel. They wanted to push back on that.

VAN SUSTEREN: Ed, he is a cardiologist. He's an NFL football player. Are there
any to neurologist?

HENRY: Right. To be clear, Hillary Clinton says in one of the emails I'm already
good on doctors because she initially thought OK, why are you bringing in Dr.
Frist? I have doctors. I'm under a good care.

Again, what Philippe Reines was doing was more political damage control to say,
look, conservatives are beating up on you right now. And I want to stand up for
you as your spokesman. And so he was consulting with Dr. Frist, consulting with
Roger Goodell who obviously has big issues with concussions in the NFL right
now. So that being dragged in is interesting as well. And this was more about
political damage control.

VAN SUSTEREN: Ed, thank you.

HENRY: Good to see.

VAN SUSTEREN: And brace yourself for this one. Dozens of Paris airport workers
reportedly on the terror watch list. A live report -- next.

VAN SUSTEREN: This is a "Fox News" alert. The hunt for the year's most wanted
and most wicked man is heating up. One of the terrorists behind the Paris
massacre believed to have bought detonators from a fireworks store one month
before the attack is the subject of this manhunt.

Feature story news correspondent Kevin Ozebek is live in Brussels.

Kevin?

KEVIN OZEBEK, FEATURE NEWS STORY CORRESPONDENT: Well, Greta, Salah Abdeslam has
now been on the run for 17 days and still no sign of this fugitive. The French
newspaper, "The Parisian" is reporting that a fireworks store owner who owns a
shop just north of Paris believes he sold these 10 detonators to Abdeslam about
30 days before the November 13th attacks. Now this story owner says at the time,
he didn't think anything when this man walked in and was asking for 10 reliable
detonators, but after the November 13th attacks and after seeing Salah
Abdeslam's wanted poster, the store owner kind of connected all the dots in his
head and called police. And now police are trying to confirm if, in fact,
Abdeslam was at this man's store. Greta, here in Europe, we are now really
feeling the push from the European public for tougher protocols and stricter
laws to try to prevent another Paris style attack. You mentioned going into the
break about these employees at Charles Degal Airport, Paris' largest airport
being on a terror watch list.

This is coming out of a report from the Sunday Times in London. The Sunday Times
is reporting that nearly 60 employees at that airport that were recently
screened ended up being on a terror watch list. That's pretty alarming news.
Well, Greta, here in Belgium today, we heard Prime Minister say he wants
European intelligence agency similar to the one in the CIA. That doesn't have
support all across Europe, but European leaders definitely are on board with
having a various intelligence agencies across the continent sharing information
in a much more open, and a much more effective way.

VAN SUSTEREN: Kevin, has anyone in Paris or in France responded to the fact that
these airport workers are on the terror list?

OZEBEK: Well, according to the Sunday Times in London, Charles Degal Airport
will now be getting extensive screening of all of its employees, and there are
thousands of employees at that airport. And what alarmed so many people, Greta,
is that these nearly 60 people on the terror watch list had access to both the
tarmac and aircraft, so pretty frightening when you hear this report out of the
Sunday Times from London.

VAN SUSTEREN: Kevin, thank you.

And the growing threat of a terror attack in the United States causing the Visa
Waiver Program to come under fire, now this program allows citizens from 38
different countries to travel to the United States without a visa for stays of
90 days or less. There is growing fear this program could allow people recruited
by ISIS to get into the United States. Michigan Congresswoman Candace Miller has
just introduced this legislation to counter act the problem. Congresswoman
Miller goes On the Record from the Capital. Good evening, ma'am. And can you
tell me what is -- what's the threat and what does your legislation seek to do?

CANDACE MILLER, MICHIGAN CONGRESSWOMAN: First of all, you mentioned I just
introduced legislation. Actually, Greta, we were very successful in getting this
legislation passed unanimously through the Homeland Security Committee here in
the house. So every Democrat, every Republican has already voted for this piece
of legislation. We are very hopeful. I have been talking to leadership. I am
hopeful that we will actually have a vote on the full floor here shortly. And as
you mentioned, this is a program that the United States started back in the
1980s, actually, to expedite tourism, and you know it's a different world today
than it was back in the `80s.

VAN SUSTEREN: Would this legislation, if it gets put on the floor soon and
passed, would it have prevented, for instance, the mastermind of the Paris
terrorism. He was a citizen of Belgium. Belgium is within one of the 38
countries that does need a visa. Does your legislation prevent a guy like that
from coming into the United States without a visa?

MILLER: What my legislation essentially does is it says if you are one of the
visa waiver countries, one of the 38 participating countries and do you not
share all of the information on your terrorist watch list, all of the
information sharing protocols that we need to have a very high degree of
competence and comfort level that we are getting all the information we need to
make sure that we can allow for that to happen. If not, then the Department of
Homeland Security Secretary can eliminate or suspend that particular country
from the Visa Waiver Program.

VAN SUSTEREN: Here's the problem is that Paris apparently had 57 employees at
Charles Degal Airport on the watch list, we didn't know about it all. They also
had this metadata gathering and they didn't prevent this attack. Even if France
was the most cooperative as could be, it is still, you know, still a risk for
us.

MILLER: There is always a risk. There is always a risk. But I will tell that you
almost every time there is one of these attacks in Europe or some of the other
participating countries, we find out after the fact that perhaps they had them,
one of these individuals on their watch list, but yet we weren't notified of it.
So we absolutely need to have all of the notification that we possibly can. And
you know, Greta, the 9/11 Commission said that for terrorists, really travel
documents are as good as weapons. That's what we need to think like, terrorists.

VAN SUSTEREN: What about the microchip in passports. Our nation has it. What
about other nations?

MILLER: We need to look at all of that. We need to have E-passports and we are
looking at all of that within our legislation. And you know, really, the White
House finally is starting to talk about this Visa Waiver Program as well. In the
Congress, we already passed this piece of legislation in our committee and
hopefully pass it in the house. There is a lot of talk in the Senate. I think
particularly with what's happened in Paris, this issue is ripe as we say here on
Capitol Hill. And hopefully it will pass. The terrorists are using our freedoms
of a free and open society against us. We need to close every loophole we
possibly can. There is no second for information sharing.

VAN SUSTEREN: I know Speaker Ryan watches the show often. If he is watching now
I hope he puts it up for a vote soon. Anyway, Congresswoman, thank you.

MILLER: Thank you.

VAN SUSTEREN: And today day was day number one, the first trial day for one of
the Baltimore police officers charged in the death of Freddie Gray. On the
Record was inside that courtroom today, that's next.

VAN SUSTEREN: The desperate search is on for the mother of a newborn girl found
buried alive in Compton, California. Two women say they heard something wailing
and while they were near a riverbed is when they heard it, so called 911. Police
followed the noise and discovered the unthinkable, a newborn girl in a hole
covered with asphalt and rubble, the baby less than 36 hours old when she was
found and still wrapped in a hospital blanket. The newborn is now listed in
stable condition. And police are asking for the public's health to find the
parents.

Trial of the first police officer charged in the death of Freddie Gray. Officer
William Porter is the first of the six Baltimore police officers indicted to be
tried. Gray died in April after suffering a spinal cord injury while in police
custody. His death sparked violent protests in Baltimore. On the Record's Griff
Jenkins is inside that courtroom today, Griff?

GRIFF JENKINS: That's right, Greta. Jury selection has begun and will continue
tomorrow. Judge Barry Williams had a pool of about 70 potential jurors. He was
asking questions of why they might not be able to serve, and partially he asked
them if they had been victims of crime. Had been incarcerated or are had pending
charges among other things, then the judge privately outside of open court with
those jurors in the process like I said will continue tomorrow. What really
stood out, Greta, was in the morning and here in the afternoon were the
protesters, they sounded like they were just underneath the courtroom. Clearly,
everyone could hear them.

In fact, I am not sure if we can see, there is a drizzle of about 50 protesters
behind here on the steps of city hall. They have been walking around, marching.
One wonders how much of a distraction and how much it will weigh upon these
jurors once we seat a jury -- when they hear what will be protests and bull
horns at one point, Joe Murtha, Officer Porter's Attorney stood up and looked
out the window to see them. There was a lunch break today earlier, and outside
the courtroom we spoke with the Gray Family Attorney Billy Murphy. Here is what
he had to say.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BILLY MURPHY, GRAY FAMILY ATTORNEY: Their prayer is that justice is done, and
then unusual family. Family aggrieved wants a guilty verdict. They don't want a
guilty verdict or a not guilty verdict. They want a just verdict based solely on
the evidence and on the law.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

JENKINS: So jurors will be back for more questioning tomorrow. The hope is that
this trial will start this week, opening statements could be as early as
Wednesday, Greta?

VAN SUSTEREN: Griff, thank you.

Boy, I have trouble if the jury hears protesters while they're being selected.
We will talk about that another day.

And Dr. Ben Carson becoming the first Presidential candidate to go to a Syrian
refugee camp, and I want to know what you think. Was Dr. Carson's trip about
policy or politics? So tweet policy or tweet politics using #Greta. We will show
you your live twitter votes throughout the show.

VAN SUSTEREN: Get ready to speed read the news.

And developing in Chicago, Officer Jason Van Dyke, the cop charged with first
degree murder in the shooting death of 17-year-old Laquan McDonald just released
from jail on $1.5 million bond. He is due back in court on December 18th. Last
week, police released a dashcam video showing the Officer Van Dyke shooting
McDonald 16 times. That video sparked protests and marches through the street.

And Robert Lewis Dear, the suspect in the Colorado Planned Parenthood shooting
appearing in court today via video, Dear who only spoke once faces charges of
first degree murder in Friday's blood stand-off, three people killed in the
attack, an Iraq war veteran, a mother, and a police officer. Dear is being held
without bail and due back in court on December 9th. Police have not yet released
a motive.

And a brand new winter storm headed towards the plains and the great lakes, a
deadly thanksgiving weekend storm now beginning of winter weather for the middle
ever the country. At least 14 people are dead after snow swept in from Rocky
Mountains. Meteorologist estimates that another foot of snow could fall today.

And caught on camera, a stampede of 40 elephants storming through a village in
India, the giant animals destroying cops as villagers watched in horror, of
course, officials were able to call in to tranquilizer the elephants, but after
a few hours the beasts come back. In some cases these stampedes have turned
deadly, and that's tonight's speed read.

And Dr. Ben Carson has come under some fire for his lack of foreign policy
experience, but the 2016 GOP Presidential candidate just went to Jordan to go to
a refugee camp. Earlier this month, Dr. Carson was slammed for comparing the
need to screen refugees to protecting children from a rabid dog. So will the
surprise trip help Dr. Carson increase his image on foreign policy, and I want
know what you think. Was Dr. Carson's trip about policy or politics? Tweet
policy or tweet politics using #Greta. We will show you the results throughout
the show.

The On the Record political panel is back. Rick, policy or politics, is he going
to get hit by his opponents by this.

RICK KLEIN, ABC NEWS POLITICAL DIRECTOR: It's politics, of course but it's
actually really smart politics. If you are a candidate that says you don't know
about this or don't know much about that, so you that you are learning. That
made this a savvy trip over the thanksgiving weekend. People are not paying much
attention to politics. Go away and use your medical background, perhaps, use the
community to show that you're learning. You're coming back with some ideas. And
I think it only helps him. I think in the next debate, he's a little bit
prepared to answer that question about Syrian refugees. This is what I saw.

VAN SUSTEREN: I think there is nothing like going to a refugee camp. You go to a
refugee camp just once for just a couple hours, you will never forget it as long
as you live and you learn an awful lot, A.B.?

A.B. STODDARD, THE HILL: I know. I agree with Rick. He is tweeting out pictures
of him sitting on the floor with refugees, talking to them. It was thanksgiving.
He went on thanksgiving to be with them. And he obviously learned a lot more.
But he also has changed his tone. He says these people don't want to come here.
They are not trying to take over our country. And suck us dry and spend our
government dollars. They want to stay home and we have to make sure that they
have a place to be that's safe. And we need to make sure it's adequately funded.
It's definitely a different tone than was used before he went on the trip.

VAN SUSTEREN: I look at the votes so far, 60 percent of our viewers - - keeping
the vote open, 60 percent say it was policy -- 58 percent policy, 42 percent
says politics. I would expect it to change. And he actually, my experience has
been that people really would prefer to go home if home were safe. If you go
there, that's what you hear.

KLEIN: Yeah. And he came away saying that most of the people there would rather
go back, makes more sense to keep them in the region. We should be supporting
refugee programs in Jordan elsewhere in the Middle East. I still think the
number of refugees that we brought in this country slated to bring in very
small. Talk to the Jordanians about this they would say they would like the U.S.
to take on a bigger share. You don't see Dr. Carson espousing that.

VAN SUSTEREN: But a lot of people talk about -- and President Obama doesn't like
the idea but of a safe zone and Donald Trump says a safe zone, I think Dr. Ben
Carson saying a safe zone. A lot of them want to go back home if we made a real
protective space so they could go home.

STODDARD: That's going to be an interesting argument in the Republican primary
electorate. Right now what the candidates are talking about is don't let them
come here and possibly be infiltrated by radicals and potential terrorists. A
whole debate about how much money our government is going to invest overseas in
the Middle East to protect refugees in a safe zone in a totally lawless place
like Syria, which has two or more wars ongoing at the same time, that's going to
be an interesting discussion. And the political debate on the Republican side
and before the primary votes is passed. No one wants to talk about spending
money.

VAN SUSTEREN: We hopefully on December 19th that the ABC News debate we will
hear the Democratic side on that, right?

KLEIN: A hundred percent. You have to get to the refugee issue. That's exactly
it. About this safe zone you have to keep it safe, which means you have to go in
there and almost create a little city or village or maybe bigger than that a
state and keep it safe.

VAN SUSTEREN: Rick, A.B., thank you both.

And if you support our police officers, you will want to hear what I want to
tell you off the record, next.

VAN SUSTEREN: Just in time for Cyber Monday, online retail giant Amazon
unveiling what could be the future of package delivery. These brand new
prototype drones can be used to get your order in 30 minutes. Amazon Prime Air
as they call it uses sensor technology to avoid potential obstacles on her way
to your front step. But people won't see them flying around your neighborhood,
at least not yet. In the meantime, Fox Business Network's Jolene Kent spent the
day at an Amazon warehouse learning how they sort all those packages.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JOLENE KENT, FOX BUSINESS: Amazon has said to have a record Cyber Monday. Here
is how it all works, 14 miles of conveyor belts processing more than 500
packages per second. And here inside this fulfillment center, well it's 28
football fields worth of space, 4,000 workers work inside this fulfillment
center 24 hours a day, full time workers. And they send it out. Over all, Cyber
Monday is slated to be very good, consumers on pace to spend $3 billion from
Walmart to Target to right here at Amazon. So far, looking very strong for
online ecommerce sales, Amazon though saying it can do even better this year
with revenue projected to be up 14 to 25 percent. Compared to last year, Greta?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAN SUSTEREN: Let's all go off-the-record, evil is what happened on Friday at
the Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado. Domestic terrorism killing three
innocent people, including Officer Garrett Swasey who dared to do his job, run
towards danger to save lives. But sadly, he is not the only law enforcement
officer we mourn. There are more than 20,000 names etched on the National Law
Enforcement Memorial right here in D.C. And tonight, I want to make sure one
officer whose death did not get much national attention gets our attention.
Downey California Police Officer Ricky Galvez, 29-years-old and a former U.S.
Marine. Today was his funeral.

Officer Galvez was gunned down while simply sitting in his car in the parking
lot next to the Downey Police Headquarters. Also Galvez was a dog trainer in the
canine unit, 8 dogs were brought to his viewing services yesterday. Their
leashes were taken off and a tied to his casket. His family mourns, fellow law
officers mourn, all law enforcement mourns, and we mourn. I know Officer Swasey
and Galvez are not the only law enforcement officers who have been murdered. I
can't personally honor them all because the numbers are too staggering, but I
want to make sure we emphasize being a cop is a tough job, a dangerous job. Most
importantly, they need to know we appreciate them.

And that's my off-the-record comment tonight. And you have been voting on
twitter, was Dr. Carson's trip to the refugee camp about policy or politics.
Here are your results, 62 percent say policy, 38 percent say politics. And check
this out. This is a best tweeted picture of the day. That is Princess Charlotte.
Her mother Duchess Kate snapped that adorable photo of the six month old
Charlotte. And never miss my favorite tweeted pic of the day. Set your DVR to
record On the Record so you never miss the best tweeted pic of the day. If you
can't watch live play back On the Record after you watch your other favorite
program how about 11:01 each night. Thanks for being with us. We'll see you
again Monday night right here at 7:00 p.m. Eastern. Make sure you go to
Gretawire.com. Follow me on Facebook. There is so much behind the scenes going
on in social media it's unbelievable, On the Record. See you tomorrow night, up
next the O'Reilly Factor. Good night from Washington.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 113001cb.260

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            November 30, 2015 Monday

                     SHOW: THE O'REILLY FACTOR 8:00 PM EST

Politics and Murder; Climate Change Chaos; ISIS Strategy

BYLINE: Bill O'Reilly

GUESTS: Austan Goolsbee, Charles Krauthammer, Laura Ingraham, Juan Williams,
Brit Hume

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 6921  words


BILL O'REILLY, FOX NEWS HOST: THE O'REILLY FACTOR is on. Tonight:

More global warming controversy as protesters in Paris defy the authorities even
as President Obama seeks to make a statement. Charles Krauthammer will analyze
for us.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

VICKI COWART, PLANNED PARENTHOOD, ROCKY MOUNTAINS: We have experienced so much
hateful language, hateful speech.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: Planned Parenthood saying that criticism of its selling baby body
parts has led to murder. Any validity to that? We'll debate it.

JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Have these boys been naughty or nice.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It depends on the day.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: Also ahead Watters out with the folks shopping for the holidays.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: A perfect Christmas gift.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: Caution, you are about to enter the No Spin Zone. THE FACTOR begins
right now.

Hi, I'm Bill O'Reilly. Thanks for watching us tonight.

Politics and murder: that is the subject of this evening's "Talking Points
Memo".

As you may know, 57-year-old Robert Dear, accused of killing a police officer
and two other civilians after he stormed a Planned Parenthood office in Colorado
Springs. Dear is a long-time malcontent who has had problems wherever he has
lived. Unfortunately in a free society disturbed individuals like Dear run
unchecked and so we have to report murder after murder after murder.

Planned Parenthood officials are blaming the killings on harsh criticism
directed at the organization after undercover videotapes exposed the sales of
aborted baby body parts.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

COWART: We have experienced so much hateful language, hateful speech. Such a
negative environment has been created around the work that Planned Parenthood
does around the idea of safe and legal abortion. And we have seen that across
the country from all sorts of speakers in the last few months.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: Now, what Miss Cowart does not say is that Planned Parenthood is in
the baby body parts business and deserves much of the harsh criticism directed
toward it.

The situation is reminiscent of the assassination in 2009 of Dr. George Tiller a
late-term abortionist in Kansas. For $5,000 Tiller would terminate any pregnancy
for any reason. He was nicknamed "Tiller the Baby Killer" by organizations who
objected to his grizzly practice.

I reported extensively on Tiller and after he was assassinated by a man named
Scott Roeder, some far left loons blamed me. The truth is I reported accurately
on Tiller whose assistant was stripped of her medical license after the
assassination. By the way, Roeder was given life in prison, a well-deserved
sentence.

Now the big picture is the assassin Roeder and the Colorado killer represent
their own sick selves -- nothing more. Same thing with the murder of
nine-year-old Tyshawn Lee in Chicago who was gunned down on the street because
his father is allegedly in a gang. 27-year-old Corey Morgan charged with first
degree murder. 22-year-old Kevin Edwards being sought for killing Tyshawn. No
matter what the circumstance, it would be wrong to demonize all young black
inner city men for Tyshawn's murder. It is exclusively on the killers and no one
else.

It's long past time that political zealots stop using heinous crimes to advance
their ideology.

One more example. Again, in Chicago demonstrators are protesting the police
department after a teenager, 17-year-old Laquan McDonald shot dead by Chicago
officer Jason Van Dyke. Videotape shows Laquan holding a knife but far away from
the police officers who were trying to contain him. Laquan was high on PCP and
was shot dead during the confrontation. Officer Van Dyke now charged with first
degree murder.

The Chicago protests were largely peaceful unlike Baltimore and Ferguson. Also
the Chicago PD is a troubled outfit. There is no question and deserves to be
investigated. For years they have allowed mass murder to take place in poor
neighborhoods.

And although it is wrong to convict anyone on television, the videotape on
Laquan is very troubling. It is to the credit of the demonstrators in Chicago
that they are getting their points across without harming other Americans.

But, again, you can be sure some zealots will use the Chicago police shooting to
demonize all police officers all over the country. That is flat out wrong. And
that's the memo.

Now for the top story tonight, reaction. Joining us from Chicago Dr. Austan
Goolsbee who teaches at the university there. All right. Let's tackle Planned
Parenthood first. The guy is a loon -- that's it. Correct?

DR. AUSTAN GOOLSBEE, UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO: You know, I mostly agree with what
you said in your talking point there. I think the only thing that I would add is
to the extent you are saying let's tone down the rhetoric, let's tone down the
generalization, I 100 percent agree.

We don't know that much about what's going on with this guy. It seems to me like
he is probably mentally ill. I mean he did go in and commit these mass
atrocities. But we can say things in the public that get people amped up and
lead the mentally ill to go over the edge. It doesn't put -- it doesn't take any
responsibility away from the criminals for us to say let's tone it down a little
bit.

O'REILLY: No, I'm not going to tone it down.

GOOLSBEE: And when I see Donald Trump saying --

O'REILLY: Whoa, whoa, whoa -- let's stay on this. I'm not toning it down. All
right.

Planned Parenthood deceitfully started an industry where they were selling the
body parts of aborted fetuses or babies, depending on your point of view. All
right? They didn't want the public to know it. They were doing it for money. And
they deserve every single thing they got -- all the exposure, all the reportage.

You just don't do that in a free society. It's barbaric. Now, if they are proud
of what they did, Doctor --

GOOLSBEE: You know, there is a lot of dispute that that's what the tapes
actually showed.

O'REILLY: That's what the case actually showed. That's what it was.

GOOLSBEE: I don't know that it did.

O'REILLY: Well, if you are not convinced by words on the videotape, then I can't
help you. It was clear that Planned Parenthood didn't want this to be public. It
was clear that executives took a cavalier attitude toward it. It was clear they
were doing it for money. All right. So that's clear. There is no doubt about it.

So, they don't have --

GOOLSBEE: I'm not trying to argue with you about the tapes.

O'REILLY: Well, you're telling me to tone it down. I'm not toning anything down.

GOOLSBEE: My point is -- I think in the spirit of your memo. I think in the
spirit of your memo which is if someone is mentally ill and is going to commit a
crime, that's on them.

O'REILLY: That's right.

GOOLSBEE: And mostly it is the criminals. But let us all just try to be a little
--

O'REILLY: Look, the two guys who shot this nine-year-old in the street -- are
they mentally ill these two guys?

GOOLSBEE: You know, I hope so. I fear not.

O'REILLY: Is it fair to demonize all black men, young men.

GOOLSBEE: No, you shouldn't. I agree with you.

O'REILLY: Right, you can't.

GOOLSBEE: That's why I say, I agree with that part of your memo.

O'REILLY: That's by extension you can't blame the pro-life movement or reporters
like me for telling the folks the truth.

GOOLSBEE: And I don't. And I don't.

O'REILLY: That's the point.

GOOLSBEE: What I'm saying is let's all just take one step back and not -- either
side everybody is going to point the finger and blame every crime is due to what
somebody else said. Mostly, 99 percent is the criminals themselves and they
should be tried for their crime.

O'REILLY: Ok. I will accept the 99 percent.

GOOLSBEE: I just want us to let's not make the situation worse.

O'REILLY: Aren't you a man of the left then a bit upset by the charlatans who
run out and try to exploit Tyshawn, the nine-year-old, and the Planned
Parenthood shootings for their own political purposes? I mean I just think
that's sickening.

GOOLSBEE: I could be for sure. I'm trying not to be hypocritical or one sided in
any way. And there are going to be many circumstances where I will be upset. And
some of what I have seen coming out of Colorado, they were highlighting how hot
the rhetoric was of people on the other side and saying they felt that they were
amping up really violent attacks on them. That doesn't excuse the violent
attacks.

O'REILLY: No, I didn't see any evidence of violent attacks at Planned
Parenthood.

GOOLSBEE: I just want us on all sides to take a step back and try to do less of
that.

O'REILLY: All right. Look, I'm emotionally involved with this because I was
accused of --

GOOLSBEE: -- I know you are.

O'REILLY: -- tamping that thing up in Kansas. And all I did was accurately
report on what that guy Tiller was doing. It was an industry, $5,000, you walk
in, it doesn't matter if you are going to give birth tomorrow. It doesn't matter
for what reason. He's going to terminate if you pay. I reported it. It was
accurate. Kansas took action against the assistant, also a doctor, all right.

Now, I'm sorry he is dead. And as I said, the guy who killed him deserves what
he got. He probably deserves capital punishment. But I'm not tamping down my
reporting because of this kind of demagoguery. I will give you the last word.

GOOLSBEE: Ok. I would just make a difference between you can -- whatever
reporting you want to do, but many of the events in some of these things I still
think ought to lead us to take a step back and just cool down our rhetoric. It
doesn't have to be our reporting but just our rhetoric and let's prosecute the
criminals for what they are.

O'REILLY: All right, Doc -- always a pleasure to debate with you. Thank you very
much.

Next on the rundown: climate change chaos in Paris. Why is President Obama so
adamant about the issue? Charles Krauthammer with the inside story.

Then later, Donald Trump, is he being unfairly by the National Press Corps?

Those reports after these messages.

And in the "Impact Segment" tonight, more than 150 world leaders meeting in
Paris to discuss climate change. Greeting them, hundreds of anarchists who --
you know, pretty much all these international events to cause trouble. So far
French police have arrested about 100 of them. So what is behind these violent
demonstrations?

Also, President Obama using the climate change conference to address terrorism.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We salute the people of Paris for
insisting this crucial conference go on. An act of defiance that proves nothing
will deter us from building the future we want for our children. What greater
rejection of those who would tear down our world than marshalling our best
efforts to save it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: I'm not sure I understand that line of thinking. But joining us from
Washington is a man who does -- Charles Krauthammer. So, before we get to that I
know you want to comment on the debate I just had with Dr. Goolsbee about
Planned Parenthood -- go.

CHARLES KRAUTHAMMER, SYNDICATED COLUMNIST: Because this incident reminds me of
the instant reaction after the Tucson shooter, remember the one that went to a
shopping center, shot terribly wounded the congresswoman, killed a nine-year-old
girl and within hours the explanation was that this Jared Loughner had been
influenced and driven to kill by the, quote, "climate of violence" that had been
aroused by none other than Sarah Palin. And people then cited her Web site where
she talked about the targeting of certain Democratic districts for winning them
over to the GOP and saying that that kind of language and image had influenced
him.

Of course, it was obvious from the first hour the guy was a paranoid
schizophrenic. Anybody could see it. You talk to any of the witnesses who had
known him in the past were afraid of him. The guy had this notion that the
government was using grammar to control his mind. He had nothing at all -- he
had internal world that had nothing to do with the external world. And, yet the
"New York Times" had a front page analysis piece talking exactly about that
within hours.

So, I think we have got to be very careful. It's not as clear that this guy who
did the shooting in the clinic in Colorado was a paranoid schizophrenic but
there is a lot of evidence that he was a guy who was delusional and in many ways
paranoid.

O'REILLY: That's the reportage.

KRAUTHAMMER: So before we blame anybody, learn about the mental history of this
guy. I'm quite sure we will find that there was very little connection between
the debate about Planned Parenthood and this guy's deranged shooting.

O'REILLY: Ok, now, President Obama, you heard the sound bite. He seems to think
that confronting global warming, climate change, is an anti- terror strategy.

I've heard him say that, you know, around the edges before. Do you understand
that?

KRAUTHAMMER: In fact, he said, Friday in his press conference, the President
Hollande of France that it would send a powerful rebuke to terrorism if they had
this conference.

The idea that the terrorists struck Paris in order to prevent or have anything
to do with climate change is really so out there that you have got to ask
yourself what planet is the President living on? I think this is his way of
fending off the fact or trying to distract attention from the fact that the
Paris attack and all the other attacks, world terrorism going on for the last
several months are a demonstration of the abject failure of his war on terror
policy. Of course, he doesn't even believe it's a war on terror. He abolished
the very term.

And this is a way to distract. I mean --

O'REILLY: Ok. But he has always been heavily invested in climate change --
always. This is an issue that's I believe more important to him than defeating
ISIS. It's more important than keeping Ukraine out of the soviet -- of the
Russian orbit. I mean, I want a clean planet, I'm sure you do, too. But he is
almost obsessed with this issue and I want to know why.

KRAUTHAMMER: Well, here -- once again you're asking --

O'REILLY: A psychiatrist.

KRAUTHAMMER: Yes. All right. So since I played it in the previous little
segment, I guess I'm required to play it here.

All right. I will give you one hypothesis which is the best I can do. He sees
himself grandiosely, as he always has, as a kind of visionary. A man who sees so
much further ahead than the ordinary plebeians who inhabit the United States.
That he is now looking generations ahead. He is saving the planet. He knows that
there is no honor to profits in their own time. But he will be honored for
having seen so far.

So whereas you and I and the little people with the blinkered vision are
concerned about real problems -- terrorism, the threat of nuclear, the Russians
on the march, the collapse of world order, particularly in the Middle with the
retreat -- we're concerned with all this he can see so much farther.

These problems in his view will work themselves out the way they always. Yes,
there'll be casualties, a few hundred dead here, a few hundred dead there, but
he is saving us from our own instincts and our own ignorance. That's what he
sees. And that's why he has been absolutely committed to this idea for so many
years.

O'REILLY: Well, I see it a little bit differently and I see it as a professorial
move. This is a theoretical situation where he doesn't have to take any action.
All he has to do is talk and then, you know, impose some restrictions on coal or
whatever he sees it to be.

Whereas the other problems like ISIS and Putin, that takes a lot of risk and he
is risk adverse. This guy is risk adverse. That's what I think it is.

Now we're going to hold Charles over against his will to talk about sending U.S.
troops to Syria and Iraq should that happen.

Also Jesse Watters talking to the folks about Christmas buying -- moments away.

O'REILLY: Continuing now with the "Impact Segment" Charles Krauthammer
re-joining us from Washington.

So Senators John McCain and Lindsey Graham are over in the Middle East calling
for 20,000 -- 20,000 American troops to confront ISIS along with some other
nations. Do you support that Charles?

KRAUTHAMMER: In theory I would as a last resort. Let me explain. Two caveats,
number one I would not do it under this president. He obviously is reluctant. He
obviously and does not want to do it. And if he does stuff he doesn't want to do
as he admits he did when he tried to arm, at least he had the program for half a
billion, to arm Syrian rebels and ended up with nine Syrians trained and then he
said oh I really didn't want to do it but did I it because I was told to do it.
That's not going to work.

Or the same way he escalated in Afghanistan and announce the withdrawal date in
the same sentence and a lot of Americans have died, I think four out of every
five Americans who has died in Afghanistan has been under Obama -- a guy who
never sought victory and was half hearted. I wouldn't do any operations of this
scale under Obama because there will be a lot of needless deaths.

Now, in principle, yes but I wouldn't do it right away. The reason is we have
not given the air war any kind of seriousness. I would try to do an air war that
is more than seven sorties a day over Syria. Think about that seven sorties a
day; over in the gulf war in 1991, we flew 1,100 a day. In the Kosovo war when
there weren't any boots on the ground in which we won from the air an average of
139 a day.

Seven a day is a joke. We haven't touched the oil fields, why? The
administration admitted last week we don't want to do any damage to the
environment as if we are playing a tiddlywinks game here instead of a serious
war.

O'REILLY: But that's the point though, you see, he doesn't want to confront them
militarily. So he, being the commander-in-chief, he is the architect of this
bombing campaign. He's telling them not to bomb the oil fields. He's telling
them not to go up. He is the one that's sabotaging his own policy.

So he says we have a coalition of 65 nations. Everybody knows that's a farce. He
says we are bombing ISIS and we're making progress. Everybody knows that's a
farce. You can't take any military action with him in the seat, can you?

KRAUTHAMMER: No, that's my first point. You can't do it.

O'REILLY: Right. With the hair, too.

KRAUTHAMMER: But my second point let's say we got a new president in January
2017. It will be worst. It will be harder. ISIS will be stronger with more
affiliates. At that point I think a, the first thing you do is you try a serious
air war. And by that time, I hope we'll have some Arab allies willing to join
us.

If that does not work and this is a last resort at that point I would look for a
50,000 or 100,000 man army and that would include a lot of allies with America
providing, perhaps, 10 percent. We would have France. We would have NATO,
probably the east Europeans. We would have an Arab/Sunni contingent. A major one
from Jordan, Egypt and the Gulf States.

The big trick is going to try to get Turkey which would have to be the base for
the operation to join. If so, that would be a serious push.

O'REILLY: Do you think Sunnis are going to fight Sunnis because ISIS is
primarily Sunni.

KRAUTHAMMER: Jordan is attacking ISIS --

O'REILLY: But that's because ISIS attacked them.

KRAUTHAMMER: No, no. They were already in the coalition. The Jordanians and the
Egyptians know that ISIS is a threat. ISIS has just shut down the tourist
industry in Egypt by attacking them. The Egyptians have a terrible ISIS problem
in the middle of their own country in Sinai.

Of course they will join. But they will only join the way they did in 1991 with
a president like a George H.W. Bush who said this will not stand. I will go it
alone if I have to. And as a result of saying that, that's called leadership,
about 50 other countries actually joined.

O'REILLY: All right. So you're basically saying we have to tread water for the
next, I don't know, 15 months? And ISIS basically gets a get out of jail free
card for 15 months. That's what's going to happen.

KRAUTHAMMER: But that's our problem. We reelected this man and under our
constitution he controls the military and the problem between now and then --
you cannot have a campaign that will cost a lot of lives, led by a man who
doesn't want to do it.

O'REILLY: Yes, everything changes, of course, if there is an attack here which,
you know, the odds are --

KRAUTHAMMER: Even then -- even then, do you want him ordering --

O'REILLY: No, do I want-- but he has to then. Then they have to.

All right, Charles -- as always, thank you.

Plenty more ahead as THE FACTOR moves along this evening: Is Donald Trump being
treated unfairly by the national press? Juan Williams and Laura Ingraham on
that.

And Watters going shopping with the folks.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

WATTERS: What says Christmas like a nice firearm for the kids?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Sure.

WATTERS: Yes. Throw it in there.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: All right.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: We hope you stay tuned for those reports.

O'REILLY: "Personal Story" segment tonight. Donald Trump continues to dominate
the political news cycle. His latest controversy almost a week old now about
Muslims celebrating after the 9/11 attacks. Some militant Muslims did that in
the Middle East. Mr. Trump says, he saw the same kind of reaction in New Jersey
and indeed the "The Washington Post" mention as celebratory situation in Jersey
City. The FACTOR is looking for videotape of the Jersey situation. Tomorrow, we
will have a truth serum report on that.

But for now let's bring in Laura Ingraham and Juan Williams from Washington. So,
Laura, is the national press in general too hard on Trump?

LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: I think a couple of things, Bill. I think
on the one hand they are obsessing on this issue. Yet this time of year it's
usually reindeer and Santa on the roof. Now their controversy is Muslims on the
roof. And look, it's a legitimate ask if did this really happened or not? I get
that completely. But at the same time, Trump does benefit from the attention and
the focus even if it's on issue.

I will tell you where the unfairness comes in though. The bias I think comes in
on the substantive questions that they don't really want to engage in, number
one have all these global trade deals been really good for the American middle
class. Number two, has generally open borders and unlimited immigration been
good for the American middle class working families. They don't want to talk
about those substantive issues which he does address. And that's what really he
devotes most of his time to. But Bill --

O'REILLY: But he could steer the conversation, Laura.

INGRAHAM: -- seeing on the one end, he would try to delegitimize the whole
thing.

O'REILLY: Trump could steer the conversation to those areas if he wanted to.

INGRAHAM: Right.

O'REILLY: But continues to engage in the small ball, what say you, Williams?

JUAN WILLIAMS, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Look, Trump is a master of the press. He
has played, you know, he grew up in the New York media market and he thrived.
And to this moment, no matter what he says, no matter if it can't be proven, he
puts the media on the defensive and I think lots of Republicans think oh, the
mainstream media, you know what, they are a bunch of Democrats and liberals
anyway. So, that doesn't matter. Trump actually benefits, he goes up in the poll
by attacking the media. Even what he says, there's no basis for it. Don't
forget, if you are Carly Fiorina, the press went after you on HP. Hewlett
Packard. If you are Bern Carson is on the press went after you on West Point on
this latest thing, you know, the thing about Muslims as president, his mother,
all that. If you are Marco Rubio, they go back into your past. So, it's not just
Donald Trump. Donald Trump is actually benefiting from all this media coverage
support where other people ask for more media coverage.

O'REILLY: There is more of an intensity about the Trump attacks, I think.

INGRAHAM: Yes. Bill, you are absolutely right. You're absolutely right. The
establishment in both parties, Republicans and Democrats are just absolutely in
a frothy frenzy about the idea of one of the none establishment candidates
winning. So, you see it with the left, you know. Seizing on this issue and
covering it to the exclusion of the substantive conversation, of course. That's
what they are going to do. But also, remember the report about the Republican
donors, big donors in California Brad Freeman, Ron Spogli.

These guys were big W backers, they are good guys but they basically said in one
report they raised their hand and said, they will vote for Hillary over Trump.
So, you have got a big effort out there by the establishment in both parties to
say this guy is, you know, completely out of his gourd. He just says things that
aren't true. And yet, they won't engage in the substantive conversation which I
think frankly most people really do want to have a conversation about.

O'REILLY: But to be fair, to be fair, you know, it's not easy interviewing
Donald Trump. I mean, we are going to have him on Wednesday. I think I do a
decent job of it but a lot of times I have got to say come on. You know, like
that. It's not easy. Because he has his -- it's not rehearsed but he's almost
got, he is fixated on two or three things and he always comes back to those two
or three things. I got the best people. People running the country are morons.
You know, I can make better deals. And, you know as an interviewer, you can go
well, okay, but what about this and then it's right back it to I can make better
deals. So, it's not easy to pin him down on, although on Wednesday I have two or
three new lines of questioning, Williams, which I think you will enjoy it.

WILLIAMS: Okay.

O'REILLY: But I'll tell you what, I'm not going to ask him about the Muslim
stuff. I'm not going to bother because I think that wastes the time as Laura
pointed out of the viewer. They don't care.

WILLIAMS: Well, I don't know that they don't care. But you are not going to get
an answer. And in fact, some people --

O'REILLY: Trump says, he saw it. That's it. He says he saw it.

WILLIAMS: But there's got, look, the business we're in is journalism. So, you go
and you look to corroborate the -- no, there is no corroboration of any such
tape in America in the.

O'REILLY: Well, Juan, watch "Truth Serum" tomorrow. We are looking. We're not
going to jump until we have looked into every corner.

WILLIAMS: But Laura, I want to say to you --

O'REILLY: Let Juan have the last word. Go.

WILLIAMS: I was just going to say something to Laura. I say, Laura, why doesn't
he bring that conversation back to substance. You are saying, nobody wants to
hear him. I think we do want to hear him. He doesn't discuss them.

O'REILLY: He can pin it back if he wanted to. But I think he is enjoying the
joust. Very good debate. Thank you both.

When we come right back, is President Obama hurting Hillary Clinton? New batch
of emails Mrs. Clinton's tenure at the State Department released today. Brit
Hume has got it. Then, Watters out shopping with the folks. FACTOR is coming
right back.

O'REILLY: Thanks for staying with us, I'm Bill O'Reilly in the Hume Zone segment
tonight. Almost 8,000 pages of Hillary Clinton's email. How would you like to
read all that -- released by the State Department today. Three hundred twenty
eight of those contain classified information which is what the controversy is
all about. An issue Mrs. Clinton continues to walk a very tight rope when asked
about President Obama.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you believe that President Obama under estimated ISIS when
he called it the jayvee team?

HILLARY CLINTON (D), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Look, I don't think it's useful to
go back and replow old ground.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: Sure.

Joining us now from Washington, Brit Hume. Okay. Let's take the email dump
first. Anything in there catch your eye?

BRIT HUME, FOX NEWS SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: Well, the 328 number caught my
eye, bill, because Mrs. Clinton keeps defending herself on this issue by saying
that he didn't send any emails that were marked classified. Well with, no
kidding that's because she was writing the emails and she would have had to mark
them classified. Listen, information isn't classified because it's marked that
way. It's marked that way because it's classified. So she is clearly, according
to these State Department officials who have been reviewing the matter was
trafficking or at least using classified information or information that was
secret and should have been marked classified by somebody if not her, and was --
it was in her emails. That's her responsibility. She cannot escape
responsibility for this by saying these emails weren't marked. Of course they
weren't marked.

O'REILLY: But nobody cares. That's how she escapes responsibility. And when I
say nobody. It's not people watching this program. But the mass of people they
don't understand what this is all about. They are tired of it and I don't see
this hurting her one smidgen. The people don't like her are not going to like
her and vice versa.

HUME: Well, maybe the added effect of this will be minor. But she is suffering a
problem where people don't find her trustworthy and this cannot helped that.

O'REILLY: No, I agree that her overall persona is one of dubious character.
Would that be kind? Is that accurate?

HUME: I think that's something she has to really worry about.

O'REILLY: OK. Now, the other thing she has to worry is that the Obama questions.
The worse a president does and right now he is in another losing streak, the
more she is going to be asked about well, what will you do differently? And she
doesn't want to go up against him. That's clear.

HUME: Well, that is -- I think that describes the problem perfectly. Because
there is a very close association, Bill, between the popularity of the departing
president of your own party and the candidate trying to succeed that president.
So, the worse he does, the harder it's going to be for her. On the other hand,
if she tries to distance herself from him and on some issues she apparently has
had some differences with him. But if she tries to do that she risks alienating
those who supported him and she needs their votes. Not most of their votes she
needs nearly all of their votes and she doesn't want to break with him in a way
that would cause him to break with her.

O'REILLY: He takes it real personally.

HUME: He might, Bill, but I don't think he would ever forsake her because
whatever chance he has of his legacy continuing on things like the Iran deal and
this nonbinding climate deal that's being negotiated or worked out in Paris
depends upon a democrat being --

O'REILLY: OK. So, it's a passive aggressive play. Then, you know how it is. And
he can do certain things behind the scenes.

HUME: Right.

O'REILLY: Particularly with the minority communities. It's almost like the
Reagan and you covered this, Bush the elder, transfer of power. In '87, 88 that
you had, you know, Ronald Reagan not really campaigning hard for Bush the elder,
primarily because he wasn't up to it physically.

HUME: Well, that's true. But I might add to that though that George H.W. Bush
really was very careful while he drew some distinctions between himself and
Reagan. He didn't draw very many. And it was more one of tone than one of
substance.

O'REILLY: Right. And his campaign would have appreciated Reagan doing more. But
as I write and as we know now, Reagan at the end of his term was shaky,
physically. And couldn't. But they didn't want that, you know, out. So, the
transfer from a president to another president in the same party is always
fraught, and there is a lot of infighting. And I think we are going to see that.

HUME: Well, and I do think that on some issues, she will let it be known that
she differed from him for example on the speed of the withdraw from Iraq on
articulating as the President did a deadline for withdraw from Afghanistan, the
time he was surging troops in there and on several other issues as well. And on
some domestic issues perhaps as well. Although I'm not sure (INAUDIBLE) there
are particularly pronounced.

O'REILLY: It's the same thing. But once she gets the nomination then she'll be a
little bit more. You will see.

Brit Hume, everybody. "Watters on Deck." He is in the holiday mode helping some
folks with their shopping. That's next.

O'REILLY: "Back of the Book" segment tonight, Watters' World. The National
Retail Federation estimates that Americans spent about $300 each on gifts over
the Thanksgiving weekend. And some folks like me need a lot of help shopping. We
sent Watters out to the target store in Westbury, Long Island to lend a hand.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JESSE WATTERS, O'REILLY FACTOR CORRESPONDENT: What do you celebrate Kwanzaa?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We celebrate Christmas.

WATTERS: Oh, Merry Christmas. Do you say Happy Holidays or Merry Christmas?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I usually say Happy Holidays to be all inclusive.

WATTERS: Wrong answer. Happy Kwanzaa. So, what's your shopping today for,
Kwanzaa? What's your budget for the holiday season?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I don't have one. I just spend.

WATTERS: You sound like President Obama.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No. Please don't do that.

WATTERS: You are lucky there is a mistletoe here? You want to ride on my sleigh
for a little while?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What channel is this?

WATTERS: Better. Do you know why we celebrate Christmas?

UNIDENTIFIED BOY: Because Jesus wants to give us stuff for his birthday.

WATTERS: Do you know whose birthday it was on Christmas?

UNIDENTIFIED GIRL: Santa?

WATTERS: Close. Jesus. What are you guys shopping for?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Stuff for grandchildren, for Christmas and for Hanukah.

WATTERS: Maybe this for Cousin Eddie.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It belongs to Eddie.

WATTERS: How about for Uncle Eddie?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Eddie?

WATTERS: Who are you buying presence for?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Family, friends. Extra kids?

WATTERS: Extra kids. Is there something I don't know about?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No, no, not that extra kid.

WATTERS: What are you looking to get for Christmas?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Cash. I don't like check, cash.

WATTERS: Have these boys been naughty or nice?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It depends on the day.

UNIDENTIFIED GIRL: One of you turds is about getting smacked in the mouth.

WATTERS: You have family coming in for the holiday season?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I actually has family from Argentina.

WATTERS: Don't overstay your visa, okay? So what are you getting your husband
for Christmas?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Hot wheels.

WATTERS: Hot wheels?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.

WATTERS: It sounds like you guys have a great relationship.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm hoping for something a little bit shinier.

WATTERS: Flannel pants, who are these for?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: My girlfriend.

WATTERS: How long have you guys been dating?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: That's a girl. I don't date girls. What, are you kidding
me?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You take things too seriously.

WATTERS: This is a war on Christmas, isn't it?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: To defend myself against these guys.

WATTERS: Someone gets out of line at Christmas dinner, give them a whack over
the head.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm Italian, we use wooden spoons.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I love him. But someday, I'm going to knock him on his ass.

WATTERS: Your kids --

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.

WATTERS: You save money on suntan lotion, they don't go outside. Instead of
video games, how about some outdoor activities?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Would you like to play tennis?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What are you kidding? We can play some competitive sports.

WATTERS: You got to get him a cup, too.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: For which sport?

WATTERS: Any sport. Balls flying around. You can't be too careful.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Hey you guy, oh, my nose.

WATTERS: Try this on. There we go. There we go.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Go!

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh!

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Cleanup in aisle seven.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Irve, we were never in aisle seven.

WATTERS: You guys know how to read?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.

WATTERS: Okay. Check this out. Better than coal, isn't it?

(LAUGHTER)

Do you know what is this is?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I do not.

WATTERS: I want you to throw that in there. Thirty percent off.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That's not too big.

WATTERS: He's not going to be happy about that. You got to spend more money than
this. You are not a communist, are you?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Just intervention.

WATTERS: Okay.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Good-bye. Have a good day.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: She did not like you?

WATTERS: I almost got a black eye on Black Friday.

O'REILLY: And the lady who threw the book in, she threw it right back out?

WATTERS: She did not sign that out.

O'REILLY: Okay. What's the hottest gift at Target? I mean, what is really moving
this way?

WATTERS: Besides your book, which are flying off the shelves. The Legos are the
big ticket items. Video games. No one was in the sports aisle. It was empty.

O'REILLY: I know. That's unbelievable.

WATTERS: Everyone is looking at electronics and Legos.

O'REILLY: I'm going to tell the audience that Watters and I played Touch
football with the urchins --

WATTERS: Yes.

O'REILLY: -- over the turkey bowl on Friday. You need to get in shape, Watters.

WATTERS: Are you kidding, I -- two touchdowns.

O'REILLY: I know. But, you know, you were huffing and puffing out there. We won,
but it would not be because of him.

WATTERS: Yes.

O'REILLY: But you're right. There is nobody playing sports with the machines and
all that.

WATTERS: That's right. That's why everyone is living with their parents.

O'REILLY: Okay. Jesse Watters everybody. And the FACTOR "Tip of the Day," it's
about Christmas as well. There's a new Christmas song that you might like a new
one. The tip moments away.

O'REILLY: FACTOR "Tip of the Day, some new Christmas music, worth checking out
in a moment. First, BillO'Reilly.com Christmas store already under siege. No
spin knows packing up jackets, pens, mugs, shirts, hats and parchments of
American historical documents which you then frame them up. Make terrific gifts
this parchments too. In addition, "Killing Reagan" is still number one up to
nine weeks in the marketplace. And if you want signed copies, please get the
orders in now. As, we'll have to cut them off soon. I can only sign so many. I
can only sign so many. And we can even personalize a greeting for you. Just tell
us what you want. All the killing books including the ones for kids, continue to
be a big bestsellers all over the country. And we thank you all for that.

Now, the mail.

Bob Labenson, Las Vegas. "Bill, your acceptance of Donald Trump is becoming
intolerable. He is a racist."

Well, you don't know him, Bob, so your accusation is grossly irresponsible. It's
my job to cover the campaign and those involved with it. Not to sensor or
eliminate based upon the opinions of others. No spin.

Paul Walerskil, Columbus, Indiana. "Since today's definition of racist is anyone
disagreeing with liberal thought, who cares what some call Trump?"

Bruce Masur, Phoenix, Arizona. "O'Reilly, neither you nor Dana Perino mentioned
that among GOP leaders are two Hispanics and a black man. How racist is that?"

Tiffany Score, Orlando, Florida. "Bill, I was relieved to hear. You say the
Republican candidates should relax on social issues and focus on security and
economics."

Whoever wants to be president, both parties, must persuade the folks, the voters
that he or she can deal with Islamic terrorism. Got to name it. And then they
have to convince them that they'll stimulate the economy so more good jobs are
created. Not part-time jobs, good paying jobs. All right. All the other issues
are secondary, including global warming, which I think is sixth on the list down
in the polls.

Lowell Nutter, Elysian, Minnesota. "Hey, Bill, can't wait to see you and Miller
in Phoenix on Friday."

We will be in the valley of the -- to Comerica, Lowell. We will see you there.

Ronald Oliveri, San Antonio, Texas. "O'Reilly, I finally became a
BillO'Reilly.com Premium Member and will get a free book. I also bought the
entire Killing series signed by you. Hopefully, they will arrive before
Christmas."

It should be there by the end of this week, Ron. We moved it. You made a smart
play. Your pm discount will save you the membership free and much more on this
Christmas and Hanukkah.

And finally tonight, the FACTOR "Tip of the Day." If you are tired of songs like
grandma got run over by a reindeer and rocking around the Christmas tree. I love
Brenda Lee, but I've had enough, Brenda. We have a new Christmas tune, from our
pal Mike Love, lead singer of the Beach Boys.

(MUSIC PLAYING)

That's little Mike with his mom on the cover. So, it's a good song. And you can
hear the whole thing on iTunes, whatever that is. ITunes. And there's other
stuff that I don't understand either. THE FACTOR "Tip of the Day." I used to
have a little record player. You put it on, you put the thing on its place.
ITunes.

That is it for us tonight. Please check out the FOX News FACTOR website, which
is different from BillO'Reilly.com. Also, I would like you to spout off about
THE FACTOR from anywhere in the world. O'Reilly@FOXNews.com O'Reilly@FOXNews.com
Name and town if you wish to opine. Word of the day. Do not be affrighted.
Brand-new word, do not be affrighted when writing to THE FACTOR.

Now on tomorrow's edition, we are investigating the Muslim New Jersey situation.
And "Truth Serum" is on the case. Again, thanks for watching us tonight. Miss
Megyn is next. I'm Bill O'Reilly, please remember the spin, stops here. Because
we're definitely looking out for you.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 113001cb.256

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            November 30, 2015 Monday

                        SHOW: THE KELLY FILE 9:00 PM EST

Accused Colorado Shooter Appears in Court; Some Suggest Political Rhetoric
Responsible For Colorado Shooting; Dr. Carson on Pro-Life Backlash; President
Obama Tackles Terror and Climate Change in Paris

BYLINE: Megyn Kelly, Trace Gallagher, Howie Kurtz

GUESTS: Chris Stirewalt, Ben Carson, Mark Hannah, Pete Hegseth, Steve Hayes,
Roger Stone, Judge Andrew Napolitano

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 7606  words


MEGYN KELLY, HOST, "THE KELLY FILE": Breaking tonight, the man accused of
killing three people in an attack on a Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado
makes his first court appearance as the debate over possible motive and who is
really to blame heats up.

Welcome to THE KELLY FILE, everyone, I'm Megyn Kelly. It started on Friday when
a crazed gunman opened fire in Colorado Springs killing a police officer, a mom
and an Iraq war veteran. While police have been careful not to provide
information on a possible motive, that has done little to stop some from
suggesting this has everything to do with political rhetoric from the right as
well as that series of anti-abortion videos released this year by a group known
as the center for medical progress. This is a theory that is yet to be
confirmed. And it sparked a powerful piece in the National Review by
conservative and contributor Jim Geraghty. He specifically points to what he
calls the selective logic and occasional hypocrisy by some on the Left when it
comes to violence in America.

Case in point. While many argue that Colorado was bound to happen due to
criticism of Planned Parenthood. Do you remember how some of those same folks
reacted to chance like this?

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

PROTESTERS: Pigs in a blanket, fry them like bacon! Pigs in a blanket, fry them
like bacon! Pigs in a blanket, fry them like bacon!

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: They argue that people describing police as pigs and calling for them to
be fried like bacon did nothing to fuel any of the attacks we saw on cops. When
gunmen tried to shoot up Mohammed cartoon event, the one staged by Pamela
Geller, Geraghty points out that many Liberals suggested it was Geller's fault,
that she triggered the attack. Is anyone saying that here? And at the same time
investigators contend we may never know what motivated a known, quote, "Home
grown violent extremist to kill four marines and a sailor last July." But the
man who shot Gabby Gifford and killed six others back in 2011, well, he clearly
had views similar to right wing extremists or so the theory goes.

Gary goes on to point out, that when a young man opened fire at the conservative
Family Research Council, there was no national debate about how people had
demonized Tony Perkins and political opponents on the right. But when a young
man who had a history of therapy went on a killing spree near U.C. Santa
Barbara, some on the Left were out there arguing that, quote, "Misogyny kills."
And there's little reason to talk about the gunman apparently who specifically
targeted Christians on an Oregon campus this year. And how about when a
self-avowed white supremacist committed mass murder at an African-American
church in Charleston.

Journalist declared white people are to blame. Some of them did. Meanwhile, the
African-American gay man who killed his white co-workers on live television, he
was described as a grievance monger. It is enough to make your head spin. And as
Geraghty concludes, none of us can really know what prompts a crazy person to do
crazy evil things. In moments, we will look at the political and media fallout
with Chris Stirewalt and Howie Kurtz.

But we begin with Trace Gallagher reporting from our West Coast Newsroom. Trace.

TRACE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Megyn, during his first court
appearance, Robert Deer via video conference, he wore a suicide prevention vest
and was notified that he faces first degree murder charges, though he won't be
formally charged until his next hearing on December 9th. And it could be several
more weeks before the D.A. decides whether to seek the death penalty. There was
no new information about a possible motive or even if Planned Parenthood was the
intended target. Though there have been multiple reports that after the
shooting, an hours long standoff, Robert Deer made rambling comments,
mentioning, quote, "baby parts." Both the arrest warrant and the search warrant
for the property he lives have been sealed.

Meaning for now, we don't have access to the documents detailing the evidence
gathered by investigators, but we are learning more about the suspect, including
a long history of run-ins with police. Deer has been accused of everything from
domestic violence to animal cruelty to being a peeping tom. His ex-wife told the
"New York Times" that he was generally conservative but not obsessed with
politics and that he believes abortion is wrong but didn't really talk about it.
The ex-wife says after they divorced, Deer became more reclusive and those who
did come in contact with him describe him as weird or strange. Listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ROBERT ADAMS, NEIGHBOR OF ROBERT DEER: He stayed to himself and, you know,
doesn't associate with nobody, a wave or be friendly with anybody.

LISA HAWKINS, NEIGHBOR OF ROBERT DEER: I know there were something, they were
weird, extremist of some sort, but as long as they didn't bother me, I didn't
bother them.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GALLAGHER: Other neighbors claimed Deer would occasionally hand out anti-Obama
pamphlets, and when he gave himself up at after the six-hour standoff at the
clinic, there are reports that Deer made concerning comments about the
President. The Secret Service is now evaluating those comments. By the way,
Robert Deer's public defender is the same man who defended the gunman who opened
fire in the Aurora, Colorado Movie Theater - - Megyn.

KELLY: Trace, thank you. Well, in the months since the center for medical
progress started releasing his undercover videos of Planned Parenthood, the main
stream media has largely avoided talking about or showing the sometimes graphic
pictures. In fact, there are now some claims that these videos have been quote,
"debunked." An idea that has not been proven even by Planned Parenthood's own
investigation. What's more, over the past 24 hours, a number of media outlets
appeared to jump on the idea that the videos, the ones they barely covered are
to blame. Watch.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Should those who oppose abortion rights tone down their
rhetoric?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you think the rhetoric got out of hand on Planned
Parenthood?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They say the rhetoric really has created this environment
where this happened. Do you agree with that?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Carley Fiorina who said falsely that Planned Parenthood was
guilty of harvesting a live babies organs. So, is it this kind of rhetoric
that's fueling these mentally unbalanced people to act?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Chris Stirewalt is our FOX News digital politics editor, Howie Kurtz is
host of FOX News' "MEDIA BUZZ." It was the rhetoric, Chris, it has to be the
rhetoric that drove the guy who was engaging in animal torture to commit this
act?

CHRIS STIREWALT, FOX NEWS DIGITAL POLITICS EDITOR: Well, I don't want to get in
how he's land here, but that is some of the most colossally stupid questioning I
have heard. That last one particularly was doggone impressive when you get right
down to it. Should you be talking about this issue that you care deeply about
and with which you agree with you 40 percent or 45 percent of the public agrees
with you that abortion is wrong and that the federal government shouldn't be
giving taxpayer dollars to Planned Parenthood? Do you think you Mike Huckabee or
whoever or any Republican candidate shouldn't be talking about this subject in
case a guy who lives in the camper in the middle of nowhere and is evidently
very unwell takes it the wrong way and does something? What a cockamamie line of
questioning.

KELLY: Uh-hm. Howie, this is, you tell me, but is this not evidence of the bias
in some of these reporters who see, who are on the pro-choice side and think any
expression of the anti-abortion, the pro-life stance, is angry rhetoric? If you
use the term baby killers, which the pro-life people believe abortion is, that's
the hateful rhetoric they want to shut down. That's the hateful rhetoric they
want to pin in this crime on.

STIREWALT: Yes. It's also called free speech. Look, I think the media need to be
awfully careful about giving an uncritical megaphone to those who want to make
this bogus link. Some of the rhetoric from the Left has been disturbing in this
case. The executive vice president of Planned Parenthood saying, the Republican
politicians are now claiming this tragedy had nothing to do with the toxic
environment they helped create. After every mass shooting, I say this to the
guilt by association types on the Right as well as the Left, depending on this
situation, in this case the people who are opposed to abortion and want to
defund Planned Parenthood cannot be held responsible for the actions of a madman
with a gun.

KELLY: Uh-hm. And the thing is, Chris, you know, if you look at those videos,
right? Carley Fiorina made a claim at the presidential debate that was a bridge
too far, that sort of melded two different sets of videos. But now they're
trying to pin, they're not trying to say all the Planned Parenthood videos have
been debunked because of her one claim about them. And the truth is, no matter
what you think about abortion, those videos did show doctors, one doctor who is
in charge of abortion services for Planned Parenthood talking about terminating,
I'll be charitable the potential life of an unborn human being with such
callousness that even the head of Planned Parenthood had to come out later and
apologized for what we saw on those tapes.

STIREWALT: That's right. Before they were debunked, they were apologized for.
Before they were debunked, they were an object of shame for many supporters. I
believe Hillary Clinton was the one who said, it was disturbing what she had
seen and then there was wagon circling and remember how important for the
Democratic Party the Planned Parenthood is, as an economic resource, that the
money that flows to Democrats from Planned Parenthood is not insignificant, plus
organizational factor. I would just say this, from a political point of view,
the Republicans aired -- I think Carley Fiorina was right, not in the conflation
that she made in the two points in the video. But she was right to grab and hold
those videos and talk about it and force the issue. Because it was not something
that, as you say, establishment press that is by and large pro-choice.

KELLY: They weren't talking about it.

STIREWALT: They aren't going to talk about anyone. So, the problem is --

KELLY: But the thing is, in Fiorina's defense, she did not see on those tapes,
because it didn't exist, the live fetus having its organs harvested. The reason
the fetus wasn't alive is because it had just been killed by a Planned
Parenthood doctor. So, it's not that great even if you go to the actual truth of
what she should have said happened on the tapes. And that's the cold hard truth
about abortion, Howie, is it's a very difficult issue. That's why the country is
so divided on it and to try to just dismiss what half the country genuinely
believes and what Science is providing a lot of evidence for, if you ever had a
baby and gone through a bunch of ultrasounds, which is that fetus, when it is 17
weeks old and can still be aborted, looks an awful lot like a human being is
arguably detrimental to the dialogue, to getting anywhere with the other side.

HOWARD KURTZ, FOX NEWS HOST, "MEDIA BUZZ": It's a very difficult and emotional
and personal issue as you well know. In pure political terms, I think it was a
misstep for most of the Republican presidential candidate, Ted Cruz was an early
exception, not to say anything about this tragedy, because you had a mother of
two killed, a police officer killed.

KELLY: Who are quick to speak out about Kate Steinle, for example, when she was
murdered by an illegal immigrant. But now when you have a cop and a mom killed,
nothing.

KURTZ: Right. And it happened at the Starbucks, and not a Planned Parenthood
health clinic, of course, they would have spoken out. But at the same time, some
politicians, Mike Huckabee for example, he denounced what he called an act of
domestic terrorism by this killer. And again, I won't tie him to the videos or
to the rhetoric and so forth. This is one guy with a gun who decided to shoot up
a bunch of people. But at the same, Huckabee was a fierce opponent of abortion
and said, you know, reinforce his believe that abortion is murder. It is
possible to hold both views.

KELLY: Right. Right. That's right. I mean, calling, talking about this as
domestic terrorism seems to be a no brainer. That's a no brainer, why can't we
pin it on the guy, which is what law enforcement appears to be doing. Great to
see you both.

STIREWALT: You bet, Megyn.

KELLY: Among those taking heat in the wake of this shooting is Republican
presidential candidate Ben Carson. He's here next to defend what he said and to
share some exclusive new video of what he found inside of a refugee camp holding
those Syrian refugees.

Plus, President Obama facing new fallout tonight after the administration is
questioned about what's worse the terror threat from the Islamic State or the
worry of global warming.

Plus, big news tonight in the Freddie Gray case as jury selection officially
begins for the first of the six officers charged in connection of his death. And
potential problems become immediately apparent.

Judge Andrew Napolitano is here on whether any of these officers can get a fair
trial.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What do we want?

CROWD: Dead cops!

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: When do we want it?

CROWD: Now!

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What do we want?

CROWD: Dead cops!

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: When do we want it?

CROWD: Now!

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What do we want?

CROWD: Dead cops!

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: When do we want it?

CROWD: Now!

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What do we want?

CROWD: Dead cops!

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: When do we want it?

CROWD: Now!

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Breaking tonight, Dr. Ben Carson is just back from a three-day trip to
our ally Jordan in the Middle East. The country that now houses hundreds of
thousands of Syrian refugees fleeing ISIS. And he thinks he may have a solution
to this problem of where to house these refugees. All this as Dr. Carson takes
some heat back at home for comments he made about the Planned Parenthood
shooting.

Joining me now, retired neurosurgeon and republican presidential candidate Dr.
Ben Carson. Doctor, great to see you. Welcome back. Let's start with the Planned
Parenthood issue. Because you were asked on the CBS Sunday morning show
yesterday with John Dickerson about whether, about what your thoughts were when
it comes to those who are suggesting pro-life rhetoric may have played a role in
the shooting. Let me play the exchange.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JOHN DICKERSON, CBS ANCHOR: Some abortion rights supporters have said that the
rhetoric has led to that kind of violence. What's your view on that?

DR. BEN CARSON (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: There is no question that, you know,
hateful rhetoric, no matter which side it comes from, Right or Left, is
something that is detrimental to our society. This has been a big problem.

DICKERSON: Should those who opposed abortion rights tone down their rhetoric?

CARSON: I think both sides should turn down their rhetoric and engage in civil
discussion.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: So the pro-life crowd, many of them are very unhappy with that comment.
Do you want to dial it back at all?

CARSON: Well, what they need to do is look at my record. You know, I've spent my
whole life as a pro-life advocate trying to save lives, operating on little
babies, premature babies, babies in the womb and I don't think any candidate has
been involved if raising as much money for pro-life issues as I have. So you
know when something is said that someone might try to interpret as being
anti-pro-life, that's just silly when you look at --

KELLY: What was the angry rhetoric by the pro-lifers to which you were
referring?

CARSON: Well, there are some pro-lifers who will say things like, I can
understand why somebody might come into, you know, an abortion clinic and shoot
it up. You know, that's kind of over the top. But in terms of saying things
like, you know, killing babies, I'd say that myself, that's what it is, you
can't sanitize that. But I don't think that's hateful rhetoric. That's just the
truth. But on the left side, you know, they engage in such hateful rhetoric by
saying that anybody who doesn't want a woman to have an abortion is anti-woman.
I think that's very over the top and completely untrue.

KELLY: You know the pro-lifers have come out. Some of them, Troy Newman who is a
board member on the Senate for medical progress which made those Planned
Parenthood undercover videos, he came out and said, you just ended your
candidacy. Students for life came out and said, you took your Talking Points
from Planned Parenthood. They think just because maybe, a couple of random
people on site here may have made comments like that, it's disingenuous to paint
the entire pro-life movement with the brush of hateful rhetoric. Do you believe
that's what you did?

CARSON: No. I don't think that I did it all. You know, I'm talking about people
who make statements over the top. But here was the real key point. The key point
is that one of the things that is destroying America is that people will not sit
down and talk. You know, they want to just demonize each other. Somebody has to
be the mature one. I think the appropriate people to do that are going to be the
pro-life people. Because they have much better arguments. It's very difficult
for somebody who is pro-abortion to sit down and explain why it's okay to take
this little baby who has features that we can all recognize, eyes, and ears and
parts and pull them apart. But they have to be able to explain that.

KELLY: But let me shift gears with you if I may. Because you just got back from
Jordan. And your impressions over there, the solution that you came up with was
that we should be giving more money to Jordan, who should house more of these
refugees coming out of Syria. Because your conclusion was the Syrians, they
don't want to come here?

CARSON: Well, you know, I had an opportunity to talk to several Syrians and
talking to the Jordanians. I was very impressed by how open they were and how
willing they were to bring even more refugees. They just said they didn't have
enough money to do it. They have lots more space and ability. But the Syrians,
themselves, were pretty adamant about the fact that they want to go back to
Syria. That's what they're looking for. And when asked what America could do,
they said, they could help the Jordanians. The Jordanians are having a very
difficult time financially being able to support the efforts.

KELLY: Where do we get the money? Because we've already given Jordan $4 billion.
You say maybe another $3 billion could help. Where are we going to get it?

CARSON: It doesn't have to come from the government. The people can do it. The
people have plenty of money and they also are very compassionate.

KELLY: That's a novel consent Dr. Carson. It's so novel, it doesn't have to come
from the government. That's got to be the big headline. But wait, I want to ask
you one big quick question before we have to wrap. And that involves one of your
competitors in the 2016 race. Donald Trump today had this dust-up with some
pastors, he suggested, they suggested that these guys were going to endorse him.
And they had to walk that back. He this morning suggested the reason they walked
back their allegedly, you know, promised endorsement was because they had
probably been pressured by the Black Lives Matter movement. Do you believe that?

CARSON: I have no idea whether that's true or not, but you know, I respect those
pastors for standing up for what they believe in. You know, they may end up
endorsing him. But they at least want to hear, discuss it among themselves and
decide what they want to do. And they have every right to do that. So I respect
them for doing that.

KELLY: Do you think you're in the running for those endorsements that didn't go
his way?

CARSON: Well, I certainly hope I'm in the running for everybody's endorsement,
if they will actually listen to what I'm saying as opposed to what is being
interpreted, as may say.

KELLY: Dr. Carson, great to see you.

CARSON: You too, thank you, Megyn.

KELLY: Also on the campaign trail, Donald Trump taking heat tonight for
appearing to mock a reporter's birth defect, for insisting American Muslims were
celebrating in New Jersey by the thousands on the day of 9/11, for suggesting a
Black protester at one of his events, deserved to be roughed up, and more in
just moments.

Plus, see what happened when the President's team was asked, what is the greater
threat, global warming or the Islamic State?

Pete Hegseth and Mark Hannah are next on that.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

PRES. BARACK OBAMA (D), UNITED STATES: What greater rejection than those who
would tear down our world than marshalling our best efforts to save them. We
have come to Paris to show our resolve.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Breaking tonight, new fallout after President Obama takes to the
microphone in Paris urging world leaders to combat the threat of climate change.
That comes just two weeks after the city was ravaged by terror. The President
characterized the climate summit as an act of defiance in the wake of those
attacks. But his comments at the conference have led to questions about the
President's priorities. Watch this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: How does he prioritize this, or how does he see this in
comparison to the challenge of fighting terrorism? Is it as great a challenge,
as important a priority as the fight against terrorism or maybe greater because
of ultimately, the stakes at play? I mean, where does he see it?

BEN RHODES, DEPUTY NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: Well, they're both critically
important and we have to do both at the same time. And they pose different
threats. Obviously, there is an immediate threat of terrorism that has to be
dealt with to protect the American people. I think over the long term, clearly
we see the potential for climate change to pose severe risks to the entire world
and so it's a threat that has to be --

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: A greater threat long term?

RHODES: I'm not going to rank them because they're different. And you have to do
-- again you have to do several things at once.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Pete Hegseth is a veteran of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and the CEO
of Concerned Veterans for America. He's also a FOX News contributor. Mark Hannah
served as a campaign aide during the Obama and Kerry presidential campaigns.
Good to see you both.

MARK HANNAH, FORMER CAMPAIGN AIDE FOR OBAMA AND KERRY: Hey, Megyn.

KELLY: He doesn't want to rank them, Pete. He declined to rank climate change
versus terror.

PETE HEGSETH, IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN WAR VETERAN: Well, he declines to rank,
because he knows when it comes off his lips how absurd it sounds. However, this
administration has already ranked them. This president has talked about climate
change being the single greatest threats they faced. He talks in militaristic
language about deterring the enemy in Paris two weeks after an attack, except,
oh, it's climate change. Because climate change is the perfect enemy for
President Obama, there is no face, there is no moral distinction, whether it's
hot, it's cold, you are always fighting. There is no bullets involved. And the
solution is automatically more big government. Big international schemes. And
that's what he's there to do. I mean, they know how absurd it found. But they
are ideologically on the Left committed to climate change.

KELLY: Mark --

HANNAH: Yes.

KELLY: He can't rank them, really? He can't put the importance of defeating ISIS
above climate change.

HANNAH: That's like what saying, worse, murderer or starvation, what's better,
freedom, or justice? I mean, these are big concepts, these are both very serious
threats that we face.

KELLY: Even if you agree with that, the American public is squarely opposed to
them on this. If you look at polls, terror is number one in terms of the
importance to the American people. Climate change is way down here, look at
this, terrorism 24.

HEGSETH: Twenty four!

KELLY: Climate change, three.

HANNAH: Why is the President talking about climate change? It's because he was
invited by the French people to come to Paris to talk about climate change.

KELLY: Fine.

HANNAH: He is at a climate change conference.

KELLY: Let's talk about climate change.

HANNAH: Right.

KELLY: But let's not like equip them as we're standing in the city where over
100 of people were murdered two weeks ago.

HANNAH: Sure. And so, he has an obligation to talk about the threat of
terrorism. He did that. He has an obligation to fight the war on ISIS. Which is
what he is doing. He is bombing either, there have been 8,000 airstrikes in the
past year against ISIS targets. We've killed over 26,000 ISIS fighters. But that
doesn't mean we can't at the same time do what Pope Francis is asking us to do.
Do what the Pentagon is asking us to do. They realize that the conditions of
climate change are politically creating political instability in the Middle
East. We had a -- if you don't think ISIS had anything to do with climate
change.

HEGSETH: So now, we're saying --

HANNAH: I'm about to give you some read meat, Pete.

KELLY: Well, he's saying ISIS has to do with climate change.

HANNAH: I'm saying the drought in Syria that lasted from 2007 to 2010 created
instability. And so these things aren't too unrelated. I'll give Pete that. Go
ahead, Pete. Take it away.

HEGSETH: Well, no, that is exactly the Talking Point on the Left and will
continue to be because they have no ideological way to --

HANNAH: Pete, that's not the Left.

KELLY: Hey, that's Pete's turned.

HANNAH: Pete, you served in the military. I don't know what rank you were. But
Admiral David Hinkley is telling us that --

KELLY: Hey --

(CROSSTALK)

It's Pete's turn. Go ahead, Pete.

HANNAH: Okay. Go ahead.

HEGSETH: No, I mean, the point is that this is what the left has done and will
do in ad nauseam is because they're unwilling to actually, fervently fight
radicalism, call the threat for what it is. They have to then find some what it
is.

HANNAH: Who cares with they call with Obama into kingdom come.

HEGSETH: No. No you are not. You're doing -- you're using body counts and sortie
numbers to talk about an obligation the president feels he has against ISIS. If
he was really committed, he would talk about the resolve we have in Mosul or in
Raqqa or in Syria -- Libya, where Islamist are forming their caliphate to strike
us in the west. Instead, he's talking passionately about the weather as if the
weather is what caused ISIS.

HANNAH: It's just the weather.

HEGSETH: It's just like -- you know what, that is.

HANNAH: It doesn't pose an existential threat. And this is what -- I mean, there
is a political dimension to this, too because more than twice as many voters in
critical swing states of Colorado, Virginia, Iowa, states that republicans need
to win, know that climate change is man-made and it does poses an existential
threat to us.

HEGSETH: Do you think they think it causes terrorism?

HANNAH: This is, this is -- no, but Pete.

HEGSETH: Why they -- it's why they attack us?

HANNAH: Pete, if you don't think climate change had -- this is the Pentagon that
says climate change is.

HEGSETH: I don't agree with everything our Pentagon is doing right now.

HANNAH: OK. Well, you can say you can catch your commander-in-chief all you want
on national television.

KELLY: Well, it's OK who acknowledge that.

HANNAH: Yeah, a republican defense secretary who said that.

KELLY: I got to go. I got to go.

HANNAH: It's a republican.

KELLY: Good to see you both.

HANNAH: Good to see you, Megyn.

HEGSETH: Thanks.

KELLY: Also tonight, after weeks of watching protests for college students are
more worried about feelings than free speech. The college president says he has
enough. We got his story tonight.

Plus, Donald Trump is pushing back against claims that he mocked a reporter's
birth defect. Steve Hayes and former Trump Advisor Roger Stone are here on that,
next.

KELLY: Breaking Tonight, Donald Trump under new fire after series of alleged
exaggerations or critics say lies. Early this morning, the campaign cancelling a
public event with more than 100 African-American pastors, the campaign said
these pastors wanted to get together to endorse Trump, but as it turns out, that
wasn't the case, and it's quickly became a private meeting instead. Also today,
Mr. Trump standing by his claim that he saw thousands, thousands of people in
New Jersey celebrating after the September 11th attacks. When a journalist
challenged Trump's story, Trump was accused of going after the reporter,
specifically, of mocking that reporter's birth defect. Watch here.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: This is 14 years ago, he still - - they
didn't do a retraction.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: All right, hold on. We're gonna play a full bite for you in one second.
We are joined on all of this by Steve Hayes, he's a senior writer for The Weekly
Standard and Roger Stone, who is a former Trump political advisor, but we are
going to set it up for you with Trace Gallagher. Trace?

TRACE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Megyn, after meeting with African- American
ministers, Donald Trump said he saw the love in the room. The question is how
many endorsements will he take out of the room? Organizers of the meeting would
only say that some of the black pastors have committed to Trump and the rest are
praying on it, but some of the pastors deny endorsing Trump. And a group of
other black religious leaders are angry the meeting happened in the first place
writing in Ebony magazine, quoting here, "Mr. Trump routinely uses overtly
divisive and racist language on the campaign trail. Most recently, he admitted
his supporters were justified for punching and kicking a Black protester who
attended a Trump rally with the intent to remind the crowd that "Black Lives
Matter." Trump said perhaps the person should have been roughed up. Meantime,
Donald Trump is standing by his claim that on 9/11, he saw thousands and
thousands of cheering Arabs in New Jersey, celebrating the World Trade Center
collapse. Here's Trump defending that on Meet the Press.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CHUCK TODD, MEET THE PRESS SHOW HOST: You are running for president of the
United States. Your words matter.

TRUMP: This is.

TODD: Truthfulness matters.

TRUMP: Chuck.

TODD: Fact-based matters.

TRUMP: Take it easy, Chuck, just play cool. I have a very good memory Chuck.
I'll tell you, I have a very good memory. I saw it somewhere on television many
years ago and i never forgot it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GALLAGHER: To back up the unsubstantiated claim, Trump cited a 2001 Washington
Post story that mentions the celebration, but the man who wrote the story, Serge
Kovaleski says, he wrote nothing about thousands or even hundreds of people.
Kovaleski also suffers a chronic disease affecting his arm movement and many
believed Donald Trump was mocking him when he did this. Watch.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: The Washington Post writes an article, written by a nice reporter. Now
the poor guy, you got to see this guy, oh, I don't know what I said. Ah, I don't
remember. Please don't lie. I don't remember, oh, maybe that's what I said.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GALLAGHER: Trump says he wasn't mocking. In fact, despite his self - proclaimed
amazing memory, Trump said he doesn't remember the reporter's name. Kovaleski
says, he's known trump for years, and it's on a first name basis -- Megyn.

KELLY: Trace, thank you. Joining me now Steve Hayes, Fox News contributor and
senior writer for The Weekly Standard, and Roger Stone who is former Trump
campaign political advisor and former advisor to President Nixon, good to see
you both. Steve, how would you describe this series of events?

STEVE HAYES, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Well, look, we have a joke at the Weekly
Standard that fact-checking Donald Trump is like picking up after a dog with
diarrhea. There really isn't much point. At a certain point, there is not much
you can do. And I think the string of misrepresentations I would call them lies
that Donald Trump has told as recounted there by Trace Gallagher, makes that
point pretty clearly, and a really sad kind of way that this is what our
politics has become.

KELLY: Roger, you telling me that motion he did with the hands was not an
attempt to mock a reporter who has covered him for 20 years, with whom he is on
a first name basis?

ROGER STONE, FORMER TRUMP POLITICAL ADVISOR: Look, I very clearly remember when
candidate Barack Obama went on with Jay Leno and made fun of kids in a Special
Olympics.

KELLY: It's not about Barack Obama.

STONE: And he didn't have this, he didn't have this kind of.

KELLY: It's about Donald Trump.

STONE: But he didn't have this kind of media uproar. I think what's happened
here is Trump scared the daylights out of the ruling elite and by the.

KELLY: It's a dodge.

STONE: And by the (inaudible) media and therefore.

KELLY: Why don't you stay in the rink?

STONE: Other candidates don't take.

KELLY: That stop getting out of the rink, stay in the rink. Was he mocking that
reporter or wasn't he?

STONE: I don't think he was. I mean.

KELLY: Really?

STONE: I was around Trump in the '80s and '90s when the Kovaleski said he
covered him from the Daily News. I have no remember -- memory of him. Trump is
said he doesn't know him.

KELLY: Trump said he has the most.

STONE: Trump would say.

(CROSSTALK)

KELLY: Wonderful memory in the world, the most wonderful memory in the world.

STONE: He does have a good memory.

KELLY: And in his recent statement where he did the physical imitation.

HAYES: Yes.

KELLY: He said, "Look at him." And he described him as nice.

HAYES: And in his recent statement, Megyn.

(CROSSTALK)

KELLY: Look, you're telling me that's not (inaudible).

HAYES: He said he might want to meet him again. In Trump's recent statement, he
said.

STONE: Let's go back to the larger.

HAYES: When I meet him or if I meet him again. Look, it's very clear that that
was he was doing. He introduced the entire gesticulating by saying, "You out to
see this guy," and then he imitated him. It's clear. It's just like saying that
when talked about Carly Fiorina's face, he really meant her persona. I mean,
there are so many of these that anybody inclined to get Donald Trump the benefit
of the doubt at this point are an idiot.

KELLY: Go ahead, Roger. I mean, that's the thing.

STONE: Can we go back to.

KELLY: You might be inclined.

STONE: Can we go back to.

KELLY: Let me set it up and I will you the floor.

STONE: Go ahead.

KELLY: You might be inclined to give him the benefit of the doubt if he hasn't
done -- if he hadn't done this so, so often. Where he said something
controversial and then he looks at you -- then you look at him and you say, "I
understand what you are saying." And he says, "You're a deviant if you think
that." Or he say Carly Fiorina, "Look at that face," and then he says, "It's not
her face, it's her persona." Where he says, "I never would have said to
Afghanistan was a mistake." And then you look back two weeks later, to the same
show and he's saying, "Afghanistan was a mistake." And on and on, it goes. I can
give you five more.

STONE: OK. Let's go back to a larger question, which is whether or not there are
Muslims in this country who celebrated the attack on America on 9/11. I believe
there are.

KELLY: How is that a larger question?

STONE: There are.

KELLY: That's a dodge.

STONE: Because that's what the story.

KELLY: That's not what they issue.

STONE: Because that's story was about, because that's what the story.

KELLY: What this.

STONE: Was about.

KELLY: What this story is about is whether the frontrunner on the GOP side for
president is an honest person. That's what we're discussing.

STONE: In all honesty, I remember when I worked for Ronald Reagan, and he would
read things for example, Redwood trees caused pollution. And he would say that
and there would be immediate firestorm, but the larger, the larger question,
whether the continent was (inaudible) or not it was about environmental
extremism. In this case, Trump is making a point about.

KELLY: You're making a larger point. Steve, let me ask you.

STONE: Muslim extremism.

KELLY: That this is, this is what happens. This is what Trump's lawyer was doing
on another channel early tonight. They just go to a different place. It doesn't
matter whether he tells the truth. You know he's got it right in spirit. And
clearly, Trump supporters -- they agree. They -- so you tell me whether the
Republican Party is likely to have a problem with this or not?

HAYES: Well, I think they ought to have a problem with this. I mean, look, Roger
Stone is one of the best in the business with this. And I -- and he makes a
case, I do think it was a dodge, but he makes the best case that there is to
make on behalf of Donald Trump. But what Trump said in his claims about 9/11, he
made a very specific claim. He wasn't making a big claim. He said that as the
towers fell, he watched on television as thousands and thousands of Muslims
celebrated in New Jersey. There are five different specific details there.
Almost none of them are true. It may be the case that some Muslims celebrated
somewhere in America. Certainly, we know that there is video of Muslims
celebrating in the Gaza strip. That's not what Trump said. Trump made a specific
claim. And what's really telling is that we heard him have to address this now
four different times, and he is standing by a claim that he knows to be
erroneous and he's now embracing, if you believe it, retweets are embracing,
conspiracy theories that the media have the tapes that he was talking about, but
just won't air them. I mean, this is now crazy time.

KELLY: Roger also separated from the Trump campaign after he felt that Mr. Trump
was getting too close to the personal attacking line of presidential campaigning
and not substantive enough. So that should be mentioned as well, great to see
you both.

STONE: Thanks for having me.

KELLY: Well, we also have big developments tonight in the Freddie Gray case, as
jury selection begins for the first of six officers, and the problem, quickly,
becomes apparent. Judge Andrew Napolitano is next with a warning on the
challenge for the defense.

KELLY: Major developments in the case of Freddie Gray as jury selection for one
of the police officers charged in connection with his death, finally begins
today. Almost half of those potential jurors interviewed said they have either
been investigated charged or locked up by police or victimized by criminals.
Judge Andrew Napolitano is our Fox News senior judicial analyst and the New York
Times best-selling author, Judge, good to see you. So that's a problem,
potentially.

JUDGE ANDREW NAPOLITANO, FOX NEWS SENIOR JUDICIAL ANALYST: Well, it is a problem
and the judge's obligation is to interrogate, face to face, just like you and I
are speaking now. Each potential juror to say, OK, you had this experience with
the cops, yourself, can you put it out of your mind and judge this person
fairly? We have a police officer who is a defendant. We have police officers who
will gonna testify in behalf of the government. Can you look at this
dispassionately? What do you know about the case? Whatever you know about it,
whatever opinions you formed.

KELLY: Well, let me answer that for you.

NAPOLITANO: To put that out of your head.

KELLY: Because -- first of all, if you have been a victim of a crime, you may be
pro-police, because you know, you go, you report the crime. Maybe it gets
investigated.

NAPOLITANO: Correct.

KELLY: So you will never know which way that rubs. But they were asked of the 75
to 80 potential jurors who were questioned in the first pool, every single one
indicated they were familiar with the case and with the city's $6.4 million
settlement.

NAPOLITANO: That is.

KELLY: Civil case.

NAPOLITANO: The most troubling aspect of this case. When a series of events give
rise to both a criminal proceeding and a civil proceeding, it is the rule of
thumb, everywhere in the United States of America the civil proceeding is put
aside until the criminal case is resolved.

KELLY: So as not to prejudice the results of the criminal trial.

NAPOLITANO: Correct. In the criminal trial you're talking about human freedom,
and in the civil case, you're talking about dollars. Dollars are fungible, they
can wait.

KELLY: And the burden.

(CROSSTALK)

KELLY: It's so much easier in a civil case.

NAPOLITANO: Yes.

KELLY: Than a criminal case.

NAPOLITANO: But the government here gave away, gave away $6.4 million to Mr.
Gray's family. What does that tell the jury, the employer of the police thinks
about those police? Whether that's articulated in the courtroom or not, that is
the most difficult obstacle for this judge to get over that, can you put that
out of your mind? And then, even when they say to you, "Judge, I can put it out
of my mind," you have to make a subjective evaluation, do I believe this person?
Can they really put this out of their mind? Or they want to get on this jury to
bring out a predetermined ends result, which is not what juries are supposed to
do.

KELLY: What if that does that -- does the public pressure have on these jurors?
Because obviously, this case has been covered to quite an extent, and even
today, there was chanting -- there where protesters chanting outside of the
courtroom, the defense did not object, and there was no obvious reaction from
the jury pool, but they hear that. They know they are being watched carefully.

NAPOLITANO: I think the public pressure is terrific. Had I been the judge in
this case, I would have granted a motion for a new venue, meaning more the trail
to Annapolis or another major city in Baltimore, whether the public pressure is
less.

KELLY: Outside of Baltimore.

NAPOLITANO: Outside of Baltimore, thank you, where the public pressure is less.
Look, the judge has two jobs here. The government has to get a fair shot and the
defendants have to have all of their constitutional rights protected. The right
to a fair trial means a scrupulously neutral jury as oblivious to public
pressure as is humanly possible.

KELLY: Quick question before I let you go. Who is the best juror? What's the
best type of juror for the defense, in a case like this?

NAPOLITANO: Someone who has had no familiarity with the police and can judge
this behavior dispassionately. Because the defense is gonna put on an expert
witness who will say, "Here's what the police are supposed to do, and here's
exactly what they did."

KELLY: No familiarity. So they're gonna go with Dr. Carson and he's next to
Jordan and get somebody over there. It was no familiarity with this case.

NAPOLITANO: I don't think it's he's gonna be.

KELLY: Or with the police.

NAPOLITANO: On this case.

KELLY: Great to see you.

NAPOLITANO: Likewise.

KELLY: Up next, the college president strikes back against the self- absorbed
college students. And we'll show you the message that has now gone viral.

ANNOUNCER: From the world headquarters of Fox News, it's The Kelly File with
Megyn Kelly.

KELLY: Well, after months of student protests popping up across the nation about
insulting words, one college president is telling students school is a place to
learn, not to be a cupcake. I mean, coddled. Trace Gallagher is live in our west
coast newsroom with the story, Trace?

GALLAGHER: Megyn, it all began when a student at Oklahoma Wesleyan University
attended a chapel sermon, the homily was about love, but the student was
offended because the sermon made him feel bad for not showing love, and he felt
the preacher was wrong for making him and his peers feel uncomfortable. Now at
this point, you would think someone would have immediately held the student by
the hand and escorted him to a safe zone. Instead, the university's president
Everett Piper issued a dose of reality. In an open letter to the student he
wrote, quoting here, "This is not a day care. This is a university." Going on to
say, quote, "Our culture has actually taught our kids to be this self-absorbed
and narcissistic, anytime their feelings are hurt, they are victims. Anyone who
dares challenge them and, thus, makes them feel bad about themselves is a hater,
a bigot, an oppressor and a victimizer." The president even added some advice
specifically for the young man whose feelings were hurt, writing, quote, "If you
want to complain about a sermon that makes you feel less than loving for not
showing love, this might be the wrong place for you." We don't know if the
student responded, but others called President Piper loose cannon. Piper then
told foxnews.com, quoting, "What we have right now is an argument for
ideological fascism. You must submit. You must agree. You must be one of us. And
if you don't, we will silence you. We will crush you." Oklahoma Wesleyan is a
Christian university, Megyn.

KELLY: Dr. Piper who submitted his resignation shortly -- no, just kidding. I
was kidding. Trace, thank you. We'll be right back.

KELLY: Well, as we head into the holiday season, we want to acknowledge those
moms and dads who will be spending their holiday in the NICU. Each year, one in
ten babies in the United States is born prematurely, and November is Prematurity
Awareness Month. Shannon Wilson, who is a friend of The Kelly File and mother of
two preemies, wrote The Littlest Peanut to help parents navigate this difficult
time. Her book has been used in a number of hospitals and it could help you or
anyone who has a bundle of joy arrive on this earth ahead of schedule. You can
find out more by going to TheLittlestPeanut.com. Thanks for watching, everybody.
I'm Megyn Kelly, this is The Kelly File.

(APPLAUSE)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 113001cb.251

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            November 30, 2015 Monday

                         SHOW: FOX HANNITY 10:00 PM EST

Trump Under Fire; Trump Meets With Black Pastors; Obama Attends Climate Change
Summit

BYLINE: Sean Hannity, Geraldo Rivera, Ed Rollins

GUESTS: Charles Hurt, Mike Murdock, Bishop George Bloomer, Bishop Wallace
Cherry, Joe Bastardi, Howard Gould, Doug Schoen, Monica Crowley, Mike Huckabee

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 7479  words


(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

SEAN HANNITY, HOST (voice-over): Tonight, as Donald Trump continues to dominate
in the polls, some of his Republican rivals are stepping up their attacks.

JEB BUSH (R-FL), FMR. GOV., PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: It's kind of scary, to be
honest with you, because he's not a serious candidate.

GOV. JOHN KASICH (R-OH), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I think he's very divisive, and
I do not believe he will last.

HANNITY: Is it a smart move? Our panel tonight weighs in.

And the president is in Paris for the climate change conference.

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: What greater rejection of those
who would tear down our world than marshaling our best efforts to save it.

Are liberals more concerned about weather than combating radical Islam? All of
that, plus Governor Mike Huckabee.

`Hannity" starts right here, right now.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

HANNITY: And welcome to "Hannity." So as he continues to skyrocket in the polls,
Donald Trump is taking heat from almost every direction. Now, three of Trump's
2016 Republican rivals -- they slammed him over the weekend and even questioned
his ability to become commander-in-chief! Watch this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JEB BUSH (R-FL), FMR. GOV., PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I have great doubts about
Donald Trump's ability to become commander-in-chief. I really do. I wanted to
give him the benefit of the doubt to see how the campaign unfolded, but if you
listen to him talk, it's -- it's kind of scary, to be honest with you, because
he's not a serious candidate.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE You say he won't get the nomination.

GOV. JOHN KASICH (R-OH), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: No.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What if he does? Will you...

KASICH: He's not going to. So you know, we're not even going to go there. But
I'll tell you this...

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So you -- would you...

(CROSSTALK)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: ... support him, Governor Kasich, if he is the Republican
nominee, after what you've just said about him?

KASICH: I think he's very divisive, and I do not believe he will last, Martha.

CARLY FIORINA (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Apparently, Donald Trump only feels
big when he's trying to make everyone else look small. Of course, in the end, he
looks the smallest of all.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: And that's not all. Yesterday on "Meet the Press," anchor Chuck Todd
got into a shouting match with Donald Trump over comments that he made about
9/11. By the way, this is the network of Brian Williams. Watch this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CHUCK TODD, MODERATOR, "MEET THE PRESS": This didn't happen in New Jersey. There
were plenty of reports...

(CROSSTALK)

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: It did happen in New Jersey. I have
hundreds of people that agree with me.

TODD: If I said, Well, people have said Mr. Trump's not worth $10 billion, and
people were saying -- you would say that was crazy. You wouldn't make a business
deal...

(CROSSTALK)

TODD: ... based on retweets and based on hearsay.

TRUMP: It's much...

TODD: You're running for president of the United States! Your words matter.
Truthfulness matters. Fact-based stuff matters, no?

TRUMP: Chuck -- take it easy, Chuck. Just play cool.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: Joining us with reaction tonight FOX News senior correspondent Geraldo
Rivera, from The Washington Times, Charles Hurt, and former adviser to President
Reagan Ed Rollins is with us.

Geraldo, we'll start with you. You know, first of all, this is the network of
Brian Williams, who's, by the way, back working at NBC News, the network that
altered the George Zimmerman video, the network that blew up that car to make a
point on "Dateline," that really struggled to air the Juanita Broaddrick
interview is another case.

So truth matters -- I guess Chuck Todd will take on all of those issues. Your
thoughts?

GERALDO RIVERA, FOX CORRESPONDENT: You know, Sean, I've cut my friend a lot of
slack over the last several months, Donald Trump, because he is my friend. When
he said the awful stuff about Mexicans being drug dealers and rapists, I
rationalized it -- Well, I know he's not a racist, I know the man.

When he said those really objectionable things about John McCain and our own
Megyn Kelly and Carly Fiorina, I rationalized that they're strong people, they
can take him on on their own. They don't need me.

When he said that stuff about the Muslims Jersey City, I said, Well, maybe he
was just confusing Jersey City with Jerusalem or Karachi where there were
Muslims who celebrated the downfall of the towers.

But if I stand for anything in this life, it's for the right of disabled people
not to be mocked or marginalized. And when he did that thing about the New York
Times reporter, knowing that he was disabled, making fun of him, to me, Sean,
that was a bridge too far.

HANNITY: All right. Fair enough. But let's stay focused here. We'll get to that
issue in a second. You know that, of course, the Obama campaign, from my
perspective, made fun of John McCain not being able to use a computer, but those
were war injuries that prevent him from typing.

Charles, fact or no fact, The Washington Post wrote about people in New Jersey.
They never issued a correction. And the same thing with the AP. They had a
little bit of a caveat in their piece, but The Star Ledger also a caveat. But
those things were reported.

And if the truth matters, you know, why do reporters feel that they can treat
him this way and Hillary Clinton another way?

CHARLES HURT, WASHINGTON TIMES: You know, it is truly incredible, Sean, the
double standard there and the double standard over something that is in my mind
is so -- it's just such a ridiculous point to pick at. I mean, the fact remains
-- and regardless of what Trump's detractors say, John McCain, I think, was the
one that said it most recently, that somehow, he's making Muslims hate the
United States.

Donald Trump is not the problem for why we have terrorism around the world and
why so many of these Islamists despise America. They despise us because we're a
free country.

And you know, Donald Trump, whether he's kind of -- you know, says impolitic
things or whatever, he's the only person voters feel like is out there calling
it like it is, vowing to bomb the excrement out of ISIS, and he's -- that's why
he's doing so well in the polls.

(CROSSTALK)

HANNITY: ... the political side of this, bring Ed Rollins in. You come at this
from a very unique perspective. You advised Pat Buchanan. You were with Ross
Perot for a time. OK.

ED ROLLINS, FOX POLITICAL ANALYST: And Ronald Reagan.

HANNITY: And Ronald Reagan, too. All right. I don't want to -- I don't have time
for your whole resume, Ed. It would take the entire show.

(LAUGHTER)

ROLLINS: Thank you.

HANNITY: All right. There was a Hill article today in which a lot of fat cat
Republican big donors sat around a table at the Hotel Bel Air out in Hollywood
somewhere, and that they as part -- one of the reporting of the meeting was that
they might support Hillary Clinton over a Donald Trump, and I would assume that
would apply to Ted Cruz, as well.

ROLLINS: Who cares?

HANNITY: Meaning?

ROLLINS: Meaning who cares? She's going to have all the money she needs, and if
Donald Trump is the nominee, he's going to have all the money we need. And if
Ted Cruz wins the nomination, he'll have plenty of money, too. The fat cats got
-- get to pick who they want to pick this cycle. They invested a lot of money in
Jeb Bush, spent $100 million on a super- PAC. He's done absolutely nothing.

They don't understand this is a different election, and the election (sic) is
very irritated at the establishment. Donald Trump represents the
anti-establishment. He needs to be a little more careful on some of the things
he says, but at the end of the day, he's been -- since the day he announced on
June 16th, he's been leading every poll. He's gotten twice as much media
attention as any other candidate. He's done extremely well, has the biggest
crowds going out there.

And you know, two months from now, voters will get to cast votes, and my sense
is he's going to still be a very strong candidate.

HANNITY: All right, you know, and let me play an ad that Donald Trump put out.
And this is, I think, part of the reason Geraldo -- and I know you're a friend
of his. I know there are things you disagree with him on. But the polls aren't
lying after, like, 130, 140 days now, where he's in the lead.

And this one attacks President Obama over the issue of ISIS. I think in light of
the president's position on the Syrian refugees, this is quite relevant. Let's
roll tape.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: They're a bunch of killers with
good social media.

Thanks, Obama.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: Add to that the climate change comments of the president today, Geraldo
-- you know, Hillary's right there with him on foreign policy. Americans seem to
be craving now a stronger leader.

RIVERA: I think that -- OK. I agree with Donald Trump that we should bomb ISIS.
I think that he's right. He was right about bombing the oil facilities and the
oil trucks.

But Sean, I'm not going to let that previous conversation go without one more
remark. Donald Trump and I are both older than you. We come from the 1950s
generation.

HANNITY: Much older.

RIVERA: It was OK to criticize someone for their race or their ethnicity, or you
know, the way they looked or even if they were disabled. But those days were a
half century ago. And Donald, God bless him, has to get over it. He's got to
evolve. He's got to -- it's not political correctness. It's just manners. He's
got to -- he's got to really...

HANNITY: OK...

(CROSSTALK)

HANNITY: ... legitimate...

RIVERA: ... if you are gracious and have manners.

Now, I want him to -- I want the president of the United States, who's here at
this climate conference saying that this is the worst thing in the world and
that maybe even the climate is what caused ISIS to be created in first place.

I think that all of those things are so far from the mark that that is Trump's
appeal. He cuts to the quick, putting aside the fact there's excessive insults
and so forth. He cuts to the quick. We have to take out this enemy. We have to
destroy these terrorists before they destroy our way of life. Civilization
itself, as the French president said so eloquently, is at risk here, Sean.

HANNITY: I thank you all for being with us. And Geraldo, get home safe.
Appreciate it.

And coming up next tonight on this busy news night here on "Hannity"...

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The United States of America not
only recognizes our role in creating this problem, we embrace our responsibility
to do something about it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: All right, the president offshore, back in Europe, and once again,
apologizing to the world, this time for America's role in, quote, "global
warming." So is our commander-in-chief -- is he more worried about the
environment than he is about fighting radical Islamists? We'll debate that.

But first, earlier today, Donald Trump hosted a meeting with prominent religious
figures. Well, two of those leaders will join us. All this, plus 2016 Republican
hopeful Mike Huckabee will be here as we continue.

(NEWSBREAK)

HANNITY: And welcome back to "Hannity."

So earlier today at Trump Tower, Donald Trump hosted a closed-door meeting with
many prominent religious figures and leaders, and here's what the GOP
front-runner said after that meeting.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I thought it was an absolutely amazing
-- you know, it lasted for two-and-a-half hours. We came up with lots of good
ideas and lots of future ideas. But I thought it was an amazing meeting.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And how did you address some of the concerns that were
raised?

TRUMP: Well, I think we'll be addressing them over the coming months and even
over the coming years. I mean, these are deep-seated difficulties that certain
communities have, and we're going to address them. And if -- certainly, if I'm
put in a position where I can do something about them, which in this case
happens to be president, we will be working very, very closely with everybody,
and we're going to be solving a lot of problems.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: Here now some of the men that attended that meeting. From the
Compassion Worship Center, Bishop Wallace Cherry is with us. Founder and pastor
of the Bethel Family Worship Center and author of "Elephants in the Church,"
Bishop George Bloomer is with us. And the pastor of the Wisdom Center, Dr. Mike
Murdock. Guys, good to see you all.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (INAUDIBLE) see you.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (INAUDIBLE) see you.

HANNITY: All right, it was interesting because I read the story about Pastor
Darrell Scott. Originally, there was 30 or 40 guys, they were going to endorse
Trump. Then a lot of other people got invited. He said it was his mistake. He
miscommunicated to people because some of the pastors just wanted to meet with
him and not endorse. Is that the story you heard?

MIKE MURDOCK, PASTOR OF THE WISDOM CENTER: The story I heard, he just -- that we
just wanted to meet with him. I heard no pressure, no invitation. I was not
requested to endorse him. Nobody else that I know of was.

HANNITY: Tell us about the meeting. What did you think of the meeting?

BISHOP GEORGE BLOOMER, FOUNDER AND PASTOR, BETHEL FAMILY WORSHIP CENTER: Well,
it was -- it was -- this is my fourth time meeting with him. It was a great
meeting. I wept to the meeting this time to raise a question about some of the
things that's been happening on the campaign, the racial issues with the -- some
things that he had said about...

HANNITY: Any one in particular?

BLOOMER: The Black Lives Matter -- Hagler (ph)...

(CROSSTALK)

BLOOMER: Hickler (ph). Thank you very much.

(CROSSTALK)

HANNITY: It happens to me when I speak, too, Pastor.

BLOOMER: Yes. And what impressed me was that -- I raised that question. I was
the one that raised the question to talk to him about that. For a half an hour
to 40 minutes, we discussed that issue.

HANNITY: And how did you feel after it?

BLOOMER: I felt good about that. I was OK with what, you know, his answers to
when we had put (INAUDIBLE)

HANNITY: Let me ask Pastor -- Bishop Cherry this. You know, Bishop, when they
were asking the Democratic candidates do black lives matter or all lives matter,
I was a little shocked at the answer, Bernie Sanders and Martin O'Malley and
Hillary Clinton. I was taught to believe that we're all children of God, that
we're all God's children.

What's the answer? Isn't the answer all lives matter, every life matters?

BISHOP WALLACE CHERRY, COMPASSION WORSHIP CENTER: All lives does matter.
Sometimes fear, when fear is instituted, things that people fear, they have a
tendency to attack.

And I truly believe that all lives matter, regardless to what your race may be
or the culture that you may have grown up in or even to your stance (ph). There
again, just as you first stated, you know, God loves us all, and he doesn't
separate us by race. He looks at us as being the human race.

HANNITY: I agree with that. You know, I'm going to get a little political here.
OK. And I know the majority were African-American, black ministers, pastors,
bishops, correct?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Latinos also.

HANNITY: And I look at those people that have been hurt the most, I would argue,
under this president's policies, disproportionately so, are black Americans,
Hispanic Americans.

And I care about all people. I don't want to see 94.5 million Americans out of
the labor force. I don't want to see the black teenage unemployment rate of 50
percent. I don't want to see 50 million Americans in poverty. I don't want 46
million Americans on food stamps.

These are all millions and millions more since this man has become president!
Why does the Republican Party have a problem with the black and Hispanic vote?
Let me start with you.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I don't know why they have a problem with it, but I was
invited to a concert, and the choir came out and started singing. I hadn't -- I
didn't hear my hymn yet.

I was raised on government cheese and government butter, food stamps, welfare.
Welfare is the most damnable thing that can happen to this nation. It makes you
a permanent underclass. It keeps you running around with your hand out, thinking
that you're entitled to something, someone owes you something.

So any presidential candidate that is out there, as a pastor, that would invite
me to come and listen to them, I want to hear what they have to say that is
going to help change this...

HANNITY: I like what Trump did today. I like that Rand Paul went to historically
black colleges to reach out. When I was a local talk show host in Atlanta, I met
Hosea Williams and Andy Young and Maynard Jackson and Joseph Lowery. They didn't
agree with me. I went to an NAACP meeting there. You know, I was the only guy in
the room that was a conservative.

And I made a case that when conservatives are advancing that are black, like
Clarence Thomas, don't abandon them. That's a good thing for America. Reaction.

MURDOCK: I'm persuaded that the voice you honor controls your future. I cannot
change your life until I know whose voice you trust. I listened for three things
today in the meeting. Number one, the sound of real.

HANNITY: Did he sound real?

MURDOCK: As real as any human I've met.

HANNITY: He doesn't really have a filter, does he.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No!

(LAUGHTER)

MURDOCK: That's the secret of his appeal.

HANNITY: Yes.

MURDOCK: I think we've heard calculation. I think we've heard -- and you know,
he's walking among the snakes. And when you walk among the snakes, you can't
always kill -- you know, cut off the head.

HANNITY: I think I've heard something about be wise as a serpent and as harmless
as a dove. I read that somewhere.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.

HANNITY: You know where I might have read that?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The bible.

HANNITY: Oh, the bible. Yes. Oh, you mean it's not -- that book has sold more
than Trump's book?

(LAUGHTER)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Absolutely.

HANNITY: All right. I got to tell him that.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Number two, I look at history. What did you do yesterday?
What did you do last week? What did you do with your life? What did you do with
your knowledge? Who did you train? Who did you change?

The third thing I was listening for today is passion. Passion. And I actually
heard it. Oh, I've heard it. I've read all of his books, of course, never met
him until today. But I was listening for the passion, the passion -- the craving
of Americans...

HANNITY: You can support him.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, I can.

HANNITY: Can you support him?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm waiting for a few more songs from the choir.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: OK. Good. Good...

MURDOCK: We're also waiting for the mistakes from the other candidates.

HANNITY: What do you think, God's going to send a beautiful dove over your head
and the choirs of angels are going to come down and sing to you?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That's what they do.

(CROSSTALK)

HANNITY: I haven't seen angels yet. They're smart enough to stay away from me.
Bishop, what were your thoughts about...

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This was a meeting that when I came, I came with an open
mind, not -- no preconceived notions, didn't want to come in as the judge and I
was going to crucify this man. I just came with an open mind, just to see what
issues that he stands for, how was he going to change? Because so oftentimes,
those who are running for president make a lot of promises. And it becomes...

HANNITY: In my business, we call it BS. You know, I don't want to say a bad word
on TV, though, Pastor.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And during the political time, it's called courting color.

HANNITY: That's true.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And courting color, you need to sprinkle a little color on.
So I want to make sure that, you know...

HANNITY: Did you believe him? Did you find him sincere in what he said to you?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What he said today, I will have to say that I kind of felt
that he was sincere from the heart. There again, the bible said that out of the
abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh.

HANNITY: And maybe the fact that he doesn't have a filter, you're getting the
real him.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, and the thing of it is -- well, like, how do I know
you? And some things that you may say may offend me.

HANNITY: Me?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: But I should at least listen to what you have to say before I
judge.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And to sit in the room with a bunch of African- American
preachers and stay there for two hours and a half...

(CROSSTALK)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: ... and take the grueling (ph) that was going on inside that
room...

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And he was not uncomfortable.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And he was not uncomfortable with it!

HANNITY: You know what? I hope as a conservative who believes conservatism can
change the country -- I hope this outreach is just the beginning of days and
that I hope that people in the black community, Hispanic community, will listen
to ideas because I think, in the end, those ideas will make their lives better.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You're a conservative?

HANNITY: Yes, sir.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, I'm a concern-ative.

HANNITY: I'm a concern-ative and a conservative.

(CROSSTALK)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And I'm looking to see...

HANNITY: All right. I want to go to all your churches now. I think I'd like to
-- I'd like to sit there. I can't sing, though, so don't let me sing.

(LAUGHTER)

HANNITY: All right, thank you, all, for being with us.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you.

HANNITY: God bless you all.

All right, coming up next tonight on this busy "Hannity"...

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I believe, in the words of Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr., that there is such a thing as being too late. And when
it comes to climate change, that hour is almost upon us.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: All right, the president evoking Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., during
the climate conference in Paris. But is he putting American lives at risk by
caring more about the environment, and quote, "global warming," climate change,
global cooling, than maybe fighting radical Islamists?

And then later tonight...

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HILLARY CLINTON (D-NY), FMR. SEC. OF STATE, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We came out
of the White House not only dead broke, but in debt.

-- awful Internet video that we had nothing to do with.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: The top seven Hillary Clinton lies. We put it all together for you so
you can make a wise decision when you go in the voting booth. Straight ahead.

HANNITY: And welcome back to "Hannity." So liberals are putting national
security of Americans at risk. The president's out there strutting around Paris
at the climate change conference, and it appears he's more concerned about the
weather than he is about fighting radical Islamists. He can't even say the words
"radical Islamic terrorism."

Now, here are just a few of the outrageous things the president has said in just
the past 24 hours.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We salute the people of Paris for
insisting this crucial conference go on. What greater rejection of those who
would tear down our world than marshaling our best efforts to save it.

I've come here personally as leader of the world's largest economy and the
second largest emitter to say that the United States of America not only
recognizes our role in creating this problem, we embrace our responsibility to
do something about it.

For I believe, in the words of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., that there is such a
thing as being too late. And when it comes to climate change, that hour is
almost upon us.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: Now, those remarks are outrageous, to say the least, but here's what is
even more alarming. Listen to what former CIA director (sic) Mike Morell had to
say about President Obama's concern for the climate when it came to fighting
ISIS? Listen to this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MIKE MORELL, FMR. DEPUTY DIR. OF CIA: Prior to Paris, there seemed to be a
judgment, right -- I don't sit in the Sit Room anymore, but there seems to be --
there seemed to have been a judgment that, Look, we don't want to destroy these
oil tankers because that's infrastructure that's going to be necessary to
support the people when ISIS isn't there anymore and it's going to create
environmental damage. And we didn't go after oil wells, actually hitting oil
wells that ISIS controls, because we didn't want to do environmental damage and
we didn't want to destroy that infrastructure.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: Are you kidding me? What an admission! now, the president is not the
only one on the left who is more concerned about climate change. Remember when
Bernie Sanders actually said this? Watch this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Senator Sanders, greatest (INAUDIBLE)

SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (D-VT), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: The scientific community is
telling us if we do not address the global crisis of climate change, transform
our energy system away from fossil fuels to sustainable energy...

(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)

SANDERS: ... the planet that we're going to be leaving our kids and our
grandchildren may well not be habitable. That is a major crisis.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: All right, here now with reaction are eco-entrepreneur Howard Gould and
chief meteorologist at Weatherbell.com, of course, our good friend Joe Bastardi.

All right, so the greatest national security threat isn't ISIS, isn't radical
mullahs threatening to wipe Israel off the map, it's climate change? Then we
have we didn't destroy the tankers of ISIS because we didn't want to hurt the
environment.

Meanwhile, they're beheading people. And then, of course, the president
apologizing, saying, Well, we're the second largest emitter.

Let me give you one fact before we get started. Since 2006, according to the
International Energy Agency, emissions today in America are down to 1992 levels
when we had 50 million fewer people in America.

So do you believe that? Do you think climate change is a bigger threat than
ISIS?

HOWARD GOULD, ECO-ENTREPRENEUR: Sure. I think in the long-term goal, it
absolutely is a bigger...

(CROSSTALK)

HANNITY: You're nuts. You are insane if you believe that.

GOULD: Why is it nuts? I mean, we can sit here...

(CROSSTALK)

GOULD: ... and talk about the link between how ISIS was actually formed, about
droughts that have happened, but the fact is that it's is almost like a
whac-a-mole game, that you have different areas that are under stress are going
to pop up terrorist...

HANNITY: If you believe that...

GOULD: The idea, Sean, is...

HANNITY: You are nuts!

GOULD: ... you need to address...

(CROSSTALK)

GOULD: But you need to address the greater cause at the same time.

HANNITY: OK. Here's the thing. You have people that are hopping off people's
heads. They represent -- they're advancing a caliphate to destroy all human
living creatures. It's convert or die. That's a bigger threat.

Joe Bastardi, let me talk -- you go back to 1970s, you got "Time" magazine, the
next ice age is coming. That was the big cry of the left. Then it became global
warming. Then it became, Well let's just call it climate change because if it
snows, it's global warming. If it cools, it's global warming. Everything is
(INAUDIBLE) so everything falls under the banner of climate change.

You study the climate. Are we in a cooling period, are we in a warming period,
where are we?

JOE BASTARDI, CHIEF METEOROLOGIST, WEATHERBELL.COM: Well, climate is the
foundation to create a forecast. You need to know what happened yesterday to
know what happens tomorrow...

HANNITY: And you know the history of every storm.

BASTARDI: If anybody out there would look at the geological time scale of the
earth, you cannot see any linkage between CO2 and temperatures. So why now, OK?
Why are we -- and I'll ask Howard this question. Do you believe the increase of
one molecule of CO2 out of every 10,000 molecules of air over a 100-year period
is suddenly stronger than the sun, the oceans, stochastic events, the very
design of the system, yet never before has this occurred? So do you believe
that? Do you know...

(CROSSTALK)

BASTARDI: Do you know when that ice age -- is it 7,000 parts per million? We've
had warmer times when we've had less carbon dioxide!

(CROSSTALK)

GOULD: ... has to do with perturbations in, actually, the orbit of the earth...

BASTARDI: So how do you know what's going on now?

GOULD: No, but the fact is -- the fact is that I heard you talk about the idea
that CO2 is not adding to warming with the theory of thermodynamics...

HANNITY: I got a question. Can I ask a question?

(CROSSTALK)

GOULD: ... which is completely wrong...

BASTARDI: No one said -- no one said, Howard, it doesn't add. It has...

(CROSSTALK)

HANNITY: Is it a greenhouse gas?

GOULD: Of course it's a greenhouse gas. It's one of the smallest greenhouse gas.
There is no increase in water vapor. If we were having an increase in water
vapor, you're worried about this.

But let me ask you this question. If you look back --

BASTARDI: Ocean acidity, how do you count there 400 parts per million of CO2 and
it has been rising since 1980.

BASTARDI: How do you account for 700 parts per million and in the United States
then? Let me ask you a question, what is your definition of weather and climate.
I want to hear that.

GOULD: I think weather is a short term --

BASTARDI: No, no.

GOULD: And long-term is the climate.

BASTARDI: It's a very simple definition, my friend. It is the earth's attempt to
balance out something it cannot balance. And you're talking about the oceans.
The oceans today are a product of hundreds of years of back and forth in the
climate.

GOULD: If you notice how the acidity levels of the ocean are rising because they
can't --

HANNITY: Let me interrupt this debate.

(CROSSTALK)

HANNITY: Hang on. Hang on a second. I want to ask Joe a question. Joe, Joe, Joe.
Joe. Joe, Joe, listen, Joe!

(APPLAUSE)

BASTARDI: The ocean goes up and down, just like --

HANNITY: Joe.

GOULD: It doesn't go up.

HANNITY: Can I ask one question? Tell me about what the political agenda is.
First it is the ice age is coming. Then it's global warming. Now as I understand
it the Antarctic is building more ice -- my question is, what is his agenda?
What do people like him --

BASTARDI: I'll ask a better question.

HANNITY: You don't like my question. You ask a better question.

BASTARDI: I like your question. But it's like Dan Bongino said the other night.
There is a bull charging over you with all the world's problems. Look at the
squirrel, look at the red ball over there. We have an administration that
apparently told us that YouTube video is responsible for Benghazi. We have a
serious problem not only with ISIS --

HANNITY: What is his agenda? What is his --

BASTARDI: I have no idea.

HANNITY: Is it socialism? Is it redistribution? Is it income inequality? Is it
that conservatives are raping and pillaging the planet for profit and they want
to stop us so we can live in tents and ride bicycles?

BASTARDI: I have no dog in the fight. You know why, because I use the weather
and climate to --

HANNITY: But we're being lied to. Are scientists lying to us?

BASTARDI: Scientists lied to us. I believe that this is a train that left the
station that cannot be pulled back in. And you know something, I'm not going to
--

HANNITY: Last word. Last word.

GOULD: Last word on what? In is so much to say about it.

(CROSSTALK)

HANNITY: I think you should educate yourself. Clearly you don't know what it is.
But it has to deal with --

BASTARDI: Why are you bringing up ocean acidity when we're looking at the --

GOULD: To answer your question, Sean, I don't have a particular agenda, because
the fact is, the fact is --

HANNITY: I got to leave it here.

BASTARDI: Unbelievable. This is what we have got to deal with.

HANNITY: Coming up next on HANNITY --

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HILLARY CLINTON, (D) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We came out of the White House not
only dead broke, but in debt.

I remember landing under sniper fire.

All my grandparents came over here.

An awful internet video that we had nothing to do with.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: All right, the political insiders put together a quote of the wildest,
the debate continues, the wildest lies from Hillary Clinton. We've got the top
seven coming up.

And then later, 2016, Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee is here to
explain what he thinks of the president at the Paris climate conference as we
continue.

HANNITY: Welcome back to HANNITY. So according to the latest FOX News poll, only
38 percent of voters think that Hillary Clinton is honest and trustworthy. It is
not hard to figure out why Americans feel that way. The political insider put
together a list of what they call Hillary Clinton's, quote, "wildest lies," and
here is a few examples of what they came up with.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CLINTON: You have no reason to remember, but we came out of the White House not
only dead broke, but in debt. We had no money when we got there.

I remember landing under sniper fire. There was supposed to be some kind of a
greeting ceremony at the airport, but instead we just ran with our heads down to
get into the vehicles to get to our base.

All my grandparents, you know, came over here. And my grandfather went to work
in a lace mill in Scranton, Pennsylvania, and worked there until he retired at
65.

The laws and regulations in effect when I was secretary of state allowed me to
use my e-mail for work. That is undisputed.

We have seen rage and violence directed at American embassies over an awful
Internet video that we had nothing to do with.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: Now, the political insider also notes that Hillary Clinton claims she
was named after Sir Edmund Hillary and that she tried to join the marines. Only
problem in the Edmund Hillary story, oh, that happened after. Oops. Sorry.

Joining us with reaction, Democratic pollster Doug Schoen, columnist for "The
Washington Times" Monica Crowley, both FOX News contributors. I don't know which
one is my favorite, but one of my favorites is, "and I landed under sniper
fire." We have the video when she actually landed and met this cute little girl
handing her flowers. Doug, where I come from, back where I come from, we call
this a big lie. What do you call it?

DOUG SCHOEN, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: I call it the frontrunner for president --

(LAUGHTER)

HANNITY: I call that -- did she lie when she said -- she said, I was sleep
deprived. Is that a lie? It sounds like a lie to me.

SCHOEN: It certainly was not a correct characterization of what happened. She
withdrew it. But Sean, I repeat, she's the frontrunner, and, candidly, on the
path to get the nomination and go on to be odds on chance to be elected.

HANNITY: Monica, there is a part of me that just expects it with the Clintons.
But will it have an impact?

MONICA CROWLEY, COLUMNIST, "WASHINGTON TIMES": Well, Mrs. Clinton has been on
the national scene now, Sean, for 25 years. And for the duration she's been a
serial liar. To answer your question, I think it is already baked in the cake
with a lot of voters. They expect the Clintons to lie. They expect them to
dissemble. Remember, she never had an intimate relationship with the truth. So
her honesty and trustworthy numbers have never been good.

But after the most recent scandal, Sean, about the e-mail server, the private
e-mail, and also the Clinton Foundation and all of the corruption and fraud that
has gone on there, her numbers have tanked even further. So when you have these
recent scandals that reinforce an already existing notion that she is not honest
and trustworthy, Doug is right, she may be the frontrunner, but she's starting
from a deficit where people don't trust her.

HANNITY: Perceptions are also hard to change. There are big lies like the sniper
fire, and then there's little lies, being named after Sir Edmund Hillary. Only
problem is that great feat of Sir Edmund Hillary didn't happen until a couple
years after she was born. Why does somebody lie -- William Safire called her a
congenital liar. Why does somebody lie like this?

SCHOEN: I don't know.

HANNITY: What's the point? I'm glad you acknowledge she lies, though.

SCHOEN: I acknowledge that she certainly has exaggerated. But I also --

HANNITY: Why can't you say the word lie? L-i-e. Or if you're Joe Biden, three
letter word, l-i-e-s.

(LAUGHTER)

SCHOEN: Because I've worked for Hillary, I've worked for her husband. And I
think she has a lot of leadership traits that are very good.

HANNITY: Leadership traits -- is lying one of them?

SCHOEN: She certainly has withdrawn most of those inaccuracies. I'm glad she
did.

CROWLEY: I think to my earlier point, though, voters already assume this is
about the Clintons, that they're liars.

HANNITY: Does that help her get away with it?

CROWLEY: I think people make excuses for it because it is already assumed.

HANNITY: Doug knows she's a liar. He just won't say it.

CROWLEY: Everybody knows she's a liar.

HANNITY: You're laughing. You know it's true.

CROWLEY: Republicans, rather than focus on the fact she doesn't tell the truth
and her husband doesn't tell the truth, they should focus on the question of
competency.

HANNITY: I actually think this is part of the narrative. But I think the bigger
narrative is how are you going to fix the economy, get people back to work? How
are you going to balance the budget and how are you going to save America from
ISIS? That is the bigger narrative.

CROWLEY: That gets to what I'm talking about.

HANNITY: If you're running for president, the truth matters, Doug Schoen.

SCHOEN: Right, and the trust is she's got a tax plan, she's got a jobs plan.

HANNITY: And the trust is she's a liar.

SCHOEN: And she's going to develop a strong --

HANNITY: A habitual liar.

SCHOEN: -- plan on ISIS which she'll pass the nomination.

HANNITY: She lies. Say it.

SCHOEN: I'm going to tell you she's going to be the next president.

HANNITY: That's not going to happen.

SCHOEN: Yes, it is.

HANNITY: God help us.

Coming up, more reaction to President Obama's laughable remarks at the Paris
climate conference. And 2016 Republican presidential candidate, former governor
Mike Huckabee is next.

HANNITY: Welcome back to HANNITY. Joining us with more on the Paris climate
conference and President Obama's, well, head turning remarks, 2016 Republican
presidential candidate Governor Mike Huckabee. It's almost like an obsession
this president has with apologizing for the country. When you heard his remarks
today and how out of context they were in terms of the progress we have made in
spite of him, what was your reaction?

MIKE HUCKABEE, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: You know, Sean, I sometimes wonder
what country did he grow up in, because the one I grew up in seems like such a
different place? When he said that we have contributed to this problem, I think,
what problem?

This is a country that I'll tell you what it contributed to -- the greatest
level of economic prosperity in the history of mankind, the greatest military
strength and force that has kept us safe and kept us free. This is a country
that put coal miners to work and let them build strong livelihoods for their
families. It gave people the opportunity to go to oil fills and drill for those
resources that God gave us under our feet.

This is a country that used that wealth to build hospitals, universities,
schools, and to go out and rescue the butts of people all over this world who
didn't have so much. I don't know why this president seems to be so unhappy with
the great things that America has done not only for its own people in providing
good jobs, but in providing charity and prosperity for people around the world.
When something goes wrong in this world, who the heck shows up? Americans show
up. That's who. And where did they get some of that resource to help people?
From the very energy that this president seems to hate.

HANNITY: You know, I want to ask you a question about this president as it
relates to we're going to give the Iranians $150 billion, the right to spin
centrifuges, the right build ICBMs, the right to partner with missile defense. I
don't understand that decision. Our FBI director, our director of intelligence,
our assistant FBI director, other intelligence people say that ISIS will
infiltrate the refugee community. The president insists on bringing them here.
You said you don't know whether or not he understands America's goodness. Why
would someone make those decisions when smart people are saying don't do this?
How do you explain that? It is inexplicable to me.

HUCKABEE: It is inexplicable. He thinks he's smarter than anybody else who has
ever not only held that office but who has ever I guess been an American.

Sean, look, our energy policy ought to be the total opposite of what Obama
proposes. What I think we should be doing is recognizing we have several hundred
years of energy under our feet -- coal, oil, gas. We have wind, we have solar,
we have every kind of energy. We ought to bankrupt the Russians, the Iranians,
and the Saudis by exploring, exploiting, and exporting our energy to become the
number one exporter of energy not only to challenge the balance of world power,
bring the prices down.

But I'll tell you the practical effect. When gasoline goes down to $1 a gallon
or less, we have just given a single mom the biggest pay increase she's ever
had. When electricity goes down, that 84-year-old widow living in south Arkansas
on a hot summer August day who swelters through the summer because she can't
turn air conditioning on, get that electricity bill so she can turn it on and
put the thermostat at 72 and enjoy a very safe and comfortable summer.

HANNITY: You have been one guy, maybe along with Ted Cruz. The two of you
probably are the two guys that have said, you know what, I'm not going into this
intramural fighting. Any one of us on the stage, I think you said in the last
debate, would be a better president than any of the named Democratic candidates.
What do you think about the reports that if Donald Trump gets the nomination, or
Ted Cruz, and I don't think you're particularly loved by the establishment, to
be honest, governor.

HUCKABEE: No, I'm not.

HANNITY: If you get the nomination, they're threatening to pick up their toys
and take their money and go home. What is your reaction to that?

HUCKABEE: Well, if they love their own interests more than they love America,
then I guess that is what they'll do. But I find it interesting that as
candidates we're asked to sign a pledge of loyalty to the party so that whoever
gets the nomination, we're to support them. Doesn't the party owe us a pledge of
loyalty so that if one of us gets the nomination the party and all of its
apparatus would be loyal to us? Isn't that the way loyalty is supposed to work?

HANNITY: You saw the interview with some of these guys over the weekend. Now
they're wavering. Now because they're not winning they seem to be thinking about
picking up their toys.

HUCKABEE: Well, it would be a huge mistake to the detriment of their own future.
If they really think Bernie Sanders or Hillary Clinton or Martin O'Malley would
be great for this country and build a strong economy, make it safe, then they
need to be Democrats.

But if you're going to be a Republican, then be one, by gosh. But be a team
player and recognize, as I have said, anyone on that stage, I believe, will lead
more effectively than any of the Democrats, and we will certainly lead very
differently because we will put the national interests of the country first. And
we will build a strong economy that honors work and productivity and doesn't
punish people for being productive.

HANNITY: Governor, I agree with you. I hope everyone else heeds your advice and
warning and admonition. Thank you, sir. I appreciate it.

HUCKABEE: Thank you.

HANNITY: Coming u, our "Ask Sean" segment is coming up next, and we have an
important "Question of the Day" that we need your help with straight ahead.

HANNITY: Time for our "Question of the Day." So does it bother you that the
president is more concerned about fighting, quote, "climate change" than he is
about fighting Islamic terrorists? Kind of nuts, but we want your opinion. Go to
Facebook or Twitter, let us know what you think.

Now you've been sending in your questions all day. Time for our ask Sean
segment.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Hi, Sean. How do we connect conservatives over several
different generations?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: That is a great question. How to unite them? With ideas, ideas that
will show we can balance our budget, we can create jobs, we can become energy
independent. We have a strong free market alternative to Obamacare. Give parents
choice in education. Where there is no vision, the people perish. We need a
strong vision that is articulated by a passionate conservative and then
hopefully we can turn the country around. Great question. Thank you for sending
it in.

That's all the time we have left tonight. Thanks for being here. We'll see you
back here tomorrow night.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 113001cb.253

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            December 1, 2015 Tuesday

                           SHOW: THE FIVE 5:00 PM EST

THE FIVE for December 1, 2015

BYLINE: Kimberly Guilfoyle, Juan Williams, Eric Bolling, Dana Perino, Greg
Gutfeld

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 8054  words


GREG GUTFELD, THE FIVE SHOW CO-HOST: I'm Greg Gutfeld with Kimberly Guilfoyle,
Juan Williams, Eric Bolling, and she pole-vaults with a chopstick, Dana Perino,
The Five.

Did you know that the Paris climate talks emit 300,000 tons of CO2? Here's some
of that gas.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, UNITED STATES PRESIDENT: This is an economic and security
imperative, that we have to tackle now. Everybody else has taken climate change
really seriously. They think it's a really big problem.

PRINCE CHARLES, PRINCE OF WALES: Your deliberations over the next two weeks will
decide the fate, not only of those alive today, but also of generations yet
unborn.

DAVID CAMERON, BRITISH PRIME MINISTER: Let's just imagine for a moment, what we
would have to say to our grandchildren, if we failed.

What was it that was so difficult when the earth was in peril? When the sea
levels were rising in 2015, when crops were failing, when deserts were
expanding. What was it that was so difficult?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GUTFELD: And then the media added their own stink.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SCOTT PELLEY, CBS EVENING NEWS ANCHOR: The president warns it will soon be too
late to stop climate change. We find evidence in China's pollution emergency and
in the melting arctic.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The scientists say what happens up here is what's going to
happen to all of us.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: There's never been anything like it, 150 world leaders
under one roof in high-stakes talks targeting climate change.

DAVID MUIR, ABC WORLD NEWS TONIGHT ANCHOR: Overseas united to Paris into that
unprecedented Climate Change Summit tonight, a major gathering of world leaders
nearly 150 in all, including of course President Obama, who said today the
United States deserves some of the blame for climate change.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GUTFELD: What self-perpetuating poop. You got to wonder why such drama hasn't
been directed at terror. Maybe it's the difference between those who fight for
such causes. The climate crazies are elitists, lavishly educated, expensively
caffeinated and predominantly white. The older and richer they are, the more
this elite status becomes obvious. See Prince Charles, Leo DiCaprio, Al Gore,
still there, but I beg you. Try finding a poor Indian, a working-class Asian or
a struggling Latino on the activist front trampling over the shrine so the Paris
attacks. No, they are almost entirely white European elitists who wish to deny
cheap fuel to the billions third world, not on the electricity grid. Maybe
they're racist. As Prince Charles falsely links drought to terror, this war on
cheap resources is more likely linked, for when you insure poverty to a billion
people, a death cult becomes viable. So climate panic helps terror in two ways,
by diverting resources from the fight and punishing the poor. Now let's look at
those who see terror as a bigger threat than climate change, they are in
Hollywood, they are in the media, they're not tenure. They don't have private
jets, they don't drip with royalty or party Leo on yacht stacked with topless
supermodels. They aren't chic. They look like you and sadly, me. Could that be
why the climate crusade gets the summit and the attention and the accolades that
terror warriors never get? Imagine if we flipped this and made the war on terror
the glamorous one. ISIS wouldn't stand a chance.

That's the big question here Kimberly.

KIMBERLY GUILFOYLE, THE FIVE SHOW CO-HOST: Yup.

GUTFELD: Why can't the western leaders galvanize this sort of interest against
terror? Is it just too boring and they know Sean Penn won't show up.

GUILFOYLE: It makes them feel better about themselves. Sure, yes. There's the
glamour of Leo DiCaprio that you lost Bolling with the topless supermodels
(inaudible). He's going -- he's gonna play for the other team now. They don't
want to talk about how great, the president should be proud of serving and being
commander-in-chief of the greatest military in U.S. history. What they've been
able to accomplish. The sacrifices they've made. Instead, he really, really
wants to talk about climate. I'm telling you that as soon as he is out of the
White House, he's gonna have some like global.

GUTFELD: Yes.

GUILFOYLE: Climate fund where he can be the climate czar or be in charge of the
U.N. or something that is really in keeping with his world view. Because the
rest of it, he finds to be sort of unpleasant and distracting from the task at
hand that he wishes to achieve.

GUTFELD: Maybe think -- it maybe not be -- it's not such a link, being a friend
of Bill Ayers, to still be interested in the weather.

GUILFOYLE: Underground.

GUTFELD: Yes.

(LAUGHTER)

GUTFELD: Eric. Holding a climate talks.

GUILFOYLE: They put it together.

GUTFELD: I know.

GUILFOYLE: Yeah.

GUTFELD: It all makes sense now.

GUILFOYLE: Yeah.

GUTFELD: He's holding a climate conference in the age of ISIS. It's like having
a slumber party during a famine.

ERIC BOLLING, THE FIVE SHOW CO-HOST: Icicle -- I'm worried about icicles than
ISIS.

GUTFELD: Yeah.

BOLLING: Look, it's appalling that he's making such a big deal about this. OK,
so you want to be a climate alarmist, that's fine. We know that's what they do.
We know there's a lot of money in it. Tom Steyer is pledging.

GUTFELD: Right.

BOLLING: A hundreds of millions of dollars every year to make sure that their
voice is heard. That's fantastic. Knock yourself out, but not in place of the.

GUTFELD: Right.

BOLLING: Terror summit. Not in place of being concern about terror and certainly
not blaming the United States for the propagation of terror. In other words
saying, terror is increasing because of climate change and then saying we are
this number two emitter on the planet. Therefore, United States -- therefore,
United States is probably the number two reason.

GUTFELD: Right.

BOLLING: For terror. How can it not be that link? One, I asked Kirsten Powers
yesterday, how come it's just radical Muslims who are affected by climate change
and not Christians or Jews? It's the radical Muslims who are perpetrating terror
on the world, not the other religious groups.

GUTFELD: And you could add to that, there are no ISIS franchises popping up in
California during the drought.

BOLLING: The drought.

GUTFELD: So there's no linkage there. Juan, OK. Have you noticed that this is
mainly the hobby of white elitists?

JUAN WILLIAMS, THE FIVE SHOW CO-HOST: Sure, it's the same charge against the
feminists, but it's not to say that if you're a poor kid in Latin America or
Asia or Africa that things like asthma and things like, you know, polluted
waters don't matter to you or rising.

GUTFELD: Polluted is different than going after carbon.

WILLIAMS: Oh, I see.

GUTFELD: Coal is cheap fuel that will save the lives of millions of people.

WILLIAMS: Well, I think that in fact it will, you know, end the lives of lots of
people prematurely.

GUTFELD: That's what you feel not.

WILLIAMS: Well, no, no. That's not what I feel, but I think if you go.

GUTFELD: We have the facts, Juan.

WILLIAMS: I don't think that there is any argument over the science at this
point, but I.

GUILFOYLE: Oh my, God.

GUTFELD: What are you talking about?

WILLIAMS: I don't think so. I think that's pretty much settled science that we
have global warming.

GUTFELD: That OK. Explain to me how that it's settled. Explain to me.

WILLIAMS: I think there's -- you know, I'm not a scientist and I.

GUTFELD: Therefore, the science is settled?

WILLIAMS: Because I'm not a scientist, Greg.

GUTFELD: Well, you're saying the science is settled, but you're not a scientist.
How can you explain the near two decade pause in temperature?

WILLIAMS: But you know.

GUTFELD: How can you explain that arctic ice is expanding?

WILLIAMS: I love it Greg.

GUTFELD: How do you explain?

WILLIAMS: Yeah, how do you explain the rise in temperature? I'll tell you this.
I think it's rather cynical spin look. I think the Koch brothers, the Exxon's.

GUILFOYLE: Oh, here we go.

WILLIAMS: All of you guys, the big corporations that pollute. You know what they
feed this industry and they want us all to repeat the same old.

GUTFELD: Yeah.

GUILFOYLE: Why do you.

(CROSSTALK)

GUTFELD: They want -- maybe to the joke on carbon.

GUILFOYLE: Why.

WILLIAMS: No, they make money.

GUILFOYLE: The Koch brothers.

WILLIAMS: They don't want any more regulation of their industry.

GUTFELD: No it's actually -- this is an interesting point, then he stumbled into
an interesting truth. That the real evil behind this is prosperity, that the
people that are coming out on the climate conference are just basically saying
it's the western prosperity.

DANA PERINO, THE FIVE SHOW CO-HOST: It is why you have the developing nations --
you know, they are unified because there's a pledge of $100 billion a year from
the developed nations, from America to the developing nations and so you will
see them in lockstep because they do, look, if you have been told that your
island is going to be under water, then you take it seriously. The thing that's
interesting about this going on in this meeting in Paris, so it's a big U.N.
thing, right?

GUTFELD: Right.

PERINO: That the U.N. brings them all together. It's so interesting to me how
they have totally and wholly ignored the refugee crisis up until it's a crisis.

GUTFELD: Yeah.

PERINO: OK, it was entirely predictable. You could see it happening. It was
preventable. And what did Turtle Bay do, nothing, OK? A few tweets here and
there, but what did they spend most of their time doing? Plotting and planning
for this big conferences and the lavish dinner, I love the photographs.

GUTFELD: Yeah.

PERINO: Of all of the leaders at the big expensive dinner, plotting our future.
In the meantime, you have coal country in America completely decimated. And
Hillary Clinton is pledging $30 billion in handouts so that she can help rebuild
their communities, with what? Solar power is not going to cut it.

GUILFOYLE: Terrible.

PERINO: The other thing you've heard almost nothing about is something that
could actually do a lot of good, and that's nuclear power. But you have in
Germany, I walk away from it. You don't have an ability to permit plans that
would actually get funded and completed. So we're actually --

GUILFOYLE: I don't understand a thing.

PERINO: It's like we're moving backwards on the bicycle.

GUTFELD: The founders of the Whole Earth catalog, I believe and Greenpeace are.

(CROSSTALK)

GUTFELD: Pro-nuclear. So they have changed their ideology. Do you want to talk
about the pope?

WILLIAMS: Yeah. Let's talk about the pope.

GUTFELD: All right.

GUILFOYLE: Bolling, if you gonna say it might be.

WILLIAMS: By the way, you know.

(CROSSTALK)

WILLIAMS: You know, I'm not -- I don't think that people are sort of this really
opposed Dana, to nuclear power. But I think when people think about accidents in
Chernobyl and that terrible accident over in Japan recently. I think people are
cautious.

PERINO: No, the alternative..

WILLIAMS: Like not in my neighborhood, please, not a single one.

PERINO: The alternatives to not doing things smartly and safely.

WILLIAMS: Yeah, you rather be smart and safe about it.

PERINO: And be safeguard. Is that we do nothing there.

WILLIAMS: Well, don't you.

PERINO: And we, we rely on a hope and a prayer that we're going to be able to --
basically grow our economy on what? It's not going to grow on wind or solar. In
the meantime, you have whole communities across Appalachian in America that are
devastated, and with like, you know, 53 percent unemployment rates.

GUTFELD: Yeah. And there are 3 million people that die every year from burning
impure fuel.

PERINO: And the better we do, actually here and the way -- better we do in terms
of energy, the way we can actually.

GUILFOYLE: Yeah.

PERINO: Show innovation in order to make things better.

GUILFOYLE: And how about the Keystone Pipeline?

PERINO: You can clean coal.

GUILFOYLE: It's terrible.

PERINO: To work and then that helps -- actually helps bring a billion people out
of poverty.

WILLIAMS: So I know you want to talk about the pope?

GUTFELD: Yeah. I have the pope's quote. This is the pope talking about climate
change. Can we put that up there? "It's now or never" he says. "Every year the
problems are getting worse. We are at the limits, if I may use the strong word,
I would say that we are at the limits of suicide." Now this is what I like about
the pope. He's the king of the understatement.

(LAUGHTER)

GUTFELD: This declaration, Kimberly.

GUILFOYLE: Yeah.

GUTFELD: I'm not gonna after the pope about this, but I find it misguided.

GUILFOYLE: Here we go.

GUTFELD: Given that the Christians are being persecuted all around the world and
he's choosing this topic, not that.

GUILFOYLE: Well, he's also talked about that, but today.

GUTFELD: Not like that.

GUILFOYLE: It's about the weather channel. That's what's happening. So he's
making a comment about it, he's obviously, you know, a believer. He's all in on
it. I think that's why he was getting along very well with President Obama. I
don't mind him saying things about that, as long as he speaks out as well about
what's happening. The genocide of Christians.

GUTFELD: Remember he.

GUILFOYLE: At the hand of jihadists.

WILLIAMS: But Gregory, why do you think -- don't you think it's disingenuous
that she can't talk about persecution of Christians and climate change.

GUTFELD: Because, because he talk -- because he's wrong.

WILLIAMS: Or he can't talk about terrorism and climate change.

GUTFELD: He's wrong, he's wrong. He's also wrong on the Charlie Hebdo massacre.
In which he laid the blame on the cartoonists, saying that they shouldn't have
drawn those cartoons, you remember that.

WILLIAMS: You know what I think? I think you guys are behind the curve because I
see now that most republicans out on the campaign trail are saying, you know, a
climate change is real. They have arguments about whether it's caused by humans
and the like, but they're saying it's real. You guys are still in the denial
phase.

BOLLING: Global warming or climate change?

WILLIAMS: Both.

BOLLING: Well, because the convenient -- the inconvenient truth is that, as Greg
pointed it out, a 19-year pause in temperature rise is now birthed a change from
global warming to climate change. You can't deny the climate change.

WILLIAMS: You can't deny it.

BOLLING: You can't.

(CROSSTALK)

WILLIAMS: Yeah. Now you look over a 100-year period.

BOLLING: Right, but if.

(CROSSTALK)

BOLLING: But Remember Al Gore, just we'll say it again. Al Gore predicted that
the polar, the northern polar ice cap would be melted by 2013. We would be
freeze-free by 2013.

WILLIAMS: Hyperbole, ridiculous.

BOLLING: Not.

WILLIAMS: I -- so is that your whole point?

BOLLING: No, my point is actually growing.

WILLIAMS: So that's why people should not pay attention to climate change?

BOLLING: It's not shrinking. It's actually growing, 63 percent over the last two
winters.

(CROSSTALK)

GUTFELD: And you want to bring a politicians, 27 percent of democrats favor
persecution of climate skeptics in the United States.

WILLIAMS: Persecution?

GUTFELD: Yes.

(CROSSTALK)

GUTFELD: Sorry, same thing.

(LAUGHTER)

WILLIAMS: It's all right.

GUTFELD: It's the same thing.

WILLIAMS: It's all right.

PERINO: And then you really mean persecution.

GUTFELD: They mean persecuted.

GUILFOYLE: Yes, that's true.

WILLIAMS: You know what they do.

GUTFELD: Prosecution.

(CROSSTALK)

WILLIAMS: You know what happened to that woman in Vegas, they put her in that
thing that iced her up and she froze to death. That's what is gonna happen to
them -- persecution.

(CROSSTALK)

WILLIAMS: In the -- what is that called?

BOLLING: It's a cryo --

PERINO: But also Greg.

BOLLING: I think therapy.

WILLIAMS: Yeah.

PERINO: Remember, I think it is worth pointing out that what President Obama is
trying to commit the United States to, at this conference in Paris, has been
rejected by both majorities and both the House and the Senate, and over half of
the states. So he's basically betting our future on something that is likely to
be overturned in the courtroom.

BOLLING: Can I just point it out, I think it's absolutely disgusting, any world
leader that actually links terror to climate change.

GUTFELD: Yeah.

BOLLING: It was absolutely disgusting. I -- there's nothing in it for them.
There's nothing in it, other than to take blame.

(CROSSTALK)

PERINO: That's what ISIS wants.

BOLLING: To divert blame.

GUTFELD: Yeah.

GUILFOYLE: No, but The worst thing that he said today, too often American
leadership is defined by whether or not we're sending troops somewhere.

GUTFELD: It's always the weather.

PERINO: Weather.

GUTFELD: All right, coming up.

BOLLING: What?

GUTFELD: Some new battles are brewing between the GOP, that's grand old party,
Dana.

PERINO: Thank you.

GUTFELD: Presidential candidates as the first election contest in the nation
nears, I read that wonderfully. Rubio versus Cruz, Christie versus Trump, that's
next in The Five.

GUILFOYLE: Today is December 1st, and you know what that means. The Iowa
caucuses are just two months away. The presidential candidates know there's
little time left to sway voters and the battles between them are intensifying
and exciting, first up, Marco Rubio versus Ted Cruz, squaring off on the issues
of surveillance and national security.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MARCO RUBIO, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: There are republicans, including Senator
Cruz that had voted to weaken those programs. It's just part of the record, it's
nothing personal.

TED CRUZ, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: At a pact that is supporting Marco Rubio is
putting about $200,000 in running an attack ad in the state of Iowa right now,
going after me on national security. The reason that Rubio's allies have
resorted to false attack ads is they are very, very nervous about our surge in
the polls, about the fact that the conservatives are uniting behind our
campaign.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GUILFOYLE: All right. The gloves are off, Cruz versus Rubio. How do you call the
fight, Bolling?

BOLLING: Well, it looks like Ben Carson, over the last couple of maybe, eight
days. We go to real clear politics. They have nice grass on each candidacy. Ben
Carson seems to have slipped, I don't know. Somewhere around 8 percent, 7 or 8
percent over that period, and it looks like Cruz and Rubio have picked up some
-- Trump a little bit, but Cruz and Rubio have benefitted the most from it. So
they're going head to head. Now, I think they're very well light. Both of them
are very -- if you're not a Trump person, I think a lot of people right now are
saying it's going to be either Cruz or Rubio, both doing very well - both in
great in debates. So December 15th is the next debate. We'll see how that plays
out.

GUILFOYLE: So Carson is like on life alert. He's like calling life alert, I've
slipped and fallen, I can't get up. All right, Dana.

GUTFELD: But he's a surgeon, so he could operate on himself.

GUILFOYLE: That will be convenient.

PERINO: I think that the actual -- the substance of the sound bites that you've
played is really interesting debate for republicans on national security because
I think Ted Cruz tries to play it that he's on the side of the people, OK? And
he's trying to paint Marco Rubio as the crazy neocon. When actually I think
there are a lot of republicans who like think, OK, I have actually disliked what
President Obama has been doing. I can't quite get to where Rand Paul is and I'm
more comfortable where Marco will be -- Rubio is. And so those -- I think that
debate, within the Republican Party in a broader sense, having these two hash is
out, is pretty interesting to me.

GUILFOYLE: It is. I like it, too.

GUTFELD: No. It is the most important conversation that we can have right now in
the age of ISIS where we just did a whole block on this climate stuff. National
security is the only thing that matters. When something happens in terror,
everything else falls off the newspaper. And especially, since the metadata
gathering expired Saturday, right? That's no more. That was two weeks after the
Paris attacks. That's like throwing away a flashlight during a blackout.

GUILFOYLE: Terrible.

GUTFELD: We need these tools. We need these tools and evidence shows that the
chatter went dark after Snowden's leak. I know this is going to be fixed.
Probably, in the next election, but something could happen.

WILLIAMS: Yeah. What's interesting to me is.

GUILFOYLE: Yeah, it's true.

WILLIAMS: How Rubio has evolved. Rubio has become far more hawkish in the course
of this campaign.

GUTFELD: Yeah.

WILLIAMS: And it's interesting that he now goes after Cruz, who I always think
of as very conservative, he goes after Cruz as having weakened national
security. Not only in terms of votes on military budgets, but even on the point
that you're raising Greg, which is about surveillance, and the right of the
government to get involved and to, you know, peek into our, to violate some
civil liberties, arguably, but to peek into e-mails and the like, encryption. So
when I look at Rubio, I see Rubio as feeling he's got to occupy a space with the
conservatives that he thinks Cruz is in right now.

GUTFELD: Yeah.

WILLIAMS: He's the one I think is on the offensive. I'm not sure I agree with
what you said about the fact that where Carson loses, the evangelical is the
only gains go to.

BOLLING: I didn't say the evangelicals. I'm simply saying that since he's had a
tough time with foreign policy over the last eight days.

WILLIAMS: Yeah.

BOLLING: He had a bunch of stumbles, his numbers were dropping.

WILLIAMS: Right.

BOLLING: And the support seems to be picked up by both Cruz and Rubio and - -

WILLIAMS: And not Trump?

BOLLING: Well, a little Trump, yeah.

WILLIAMS: OK.

BOLLING: Trump is up a few points, but the majority of what Carson lost went to
Cruz and Rubio.

WILLIAMS: They're still far behind.

BOLLING: But and, I guess it's in Rubio's benefit to draw, to highlight where --
kind of paint Cruz in that corner of, of the NSA, of the probe -- you know the
Fourth Amendment issue that he.

(CROSSTALK)

BOLLING: Can stand on and he's going to have to support it.

WILLIAMS: Well, (inaudible), he puts Cruz in the same category.

BOLLING: As Rand Paul.

WILLIAMS: With ACLU.

BOLLING: Well, he puts him in with Rand Paul. It's what he does.

GUILFOYLE: Yeah, but maybe that's what he needs to do. If you want to pull
ahead, right now, they're really close in the polls. So if you want to say look,
I'm the guy who is really strong in national security and foreign policy, I'm
not gonna be like the other team, I'd say that too, all day long, (inaudible).

BOLLING: Although, there is debate on whether or not -- I mean, the metadata is
still collected. It's just not automatically collected.

GUILFOYLE: Yes. But guess what, they don't care about Greg's weird cat videos
(inaudible).

(LAUGHTER)

GUTFELD: They're not weird, they're tasteful.

GUILFOYLE: Interesting. Big (ph) following.

And another 2016 showdown is Chris Christie versus Donald Trump. The governor
has taken on Trump for declaring there were Muslims celebrating in New Jersey
after 9/11, and Trump of course, has fired back.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: He was very weak the other day. So the
other day he said it like well, he doesn't know. And now I guess he feels a
little bit emboldened. He must be careful with what he says.

CHRIS CHRISTIE, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Being warned by Donald Trump to be
careful what I say is fascinating. So, you know, I don't think Donald often
picks his words with great care. So listen, I was there on September 11th, I was
across the river in New York City. I was there. And not only myself, but the
state attorney general at the time, John Farmer, good, smart, you know,
republican has said the same thing that I've said, that it didn't happen.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GUILFOYLE: Fascinating. That was a good one, Dana.

PERINO: Well, I thought it was interesting that it took Christie this long to
actually push back against Trump's claims about New Jersey because on the -- on
that very first day, it was then like, like the next morning after those
comments, it was sort of like, oh, well, yeah. I don't really recall that. And I
was surprised, I thought, well, it would have been a little bit stronger in
defending my state, if you were there. I mean, he was obviously a part of it. It
was about a part of the -- soon to be a part of the attorney general's office.
So to me, I thought that was a little late in coming, not surprising. But I also
think that Christie -- in a lot of ways, it was like pulled back there. He could
have been stronger, but he -- to the point we've said over and over again, to
what benefit does that get you? I mean, Christie has had some really strong
days. He's done much better in New Hampshire. We're getting an endorsement of a
major paper.

GUILFOYLE: Yeah.

PERINO: It's a big deal.

(CROSSTALK)

PERINO: And even though he's way --

GUILFOYLE: Yeah.

PERINO: He has been way down in the polls, I think that you can't discount the
fact that some people are like well maybe, we should take another look at him.

(CROSSTALK)

PERINO: And George Will's column was really important.

GUILFOYLE: In the beginning to really.

PERINO: And so yes, I think that he has got a little bit of momentum. He doesn't
need to do anything to screw that up before the debate on December 15th.

GUILFOYLE: Yeah. All right, so because somebody's followers today could be yours
in the next day. As if you want to alienate.

OK Greg, what do you have to offer us, anything?

GUTFELD: Nothing really. No, I think this whole debate about the thousands and
thousands of celebrating Muslims in Patterson could be solved simply with Donald
Trump offering a reward for physical documentation of the celebrations. He
should offer $100,000.

PERINO: Like a birth certificate?

GUTFELD: Yeah, just say $100,000 for photos of the thousands and thousands of
people celebrating. Not the tailgate you know, not the tailgate on a rooftop.
You know a lot of people claim they saw it, I -- when pressed, it comes to --
well, somebody else might have seen it. No, I saw it, but I saw it on TV. Well,
that was Pakistan, that wasn't Patterson. So there's -- it smacks of a natural
human conflation of memories. We do this all the time. We get confused, it's
urban legend.

WILLIAMS: Yeah, but you know, he doesn't -- he doesn't seem to.

GUILFOYLE: (inaudible).

WILLIAMS: Suffer as a result.

GUTFELD: No, he doesn't because people want to believe.

BOLLING: So.

GUILFOYLE: Really?

BOLLING: I remember this day, and I would -- I was stood on the New York side, I
watched the plane fly into the tower. I remember the next day and I remember the
news reports and I remember specifically the news reports about Jersey City.
They said people were on the roofs watching the planes fly in. They were tipped
off prior to the thing. And this was -- this was the narrative that was going
on. I remember video, I don't remember if it was Pakistan or Patterson.

GUTFELD: It was Pakistan.

(CROSSTALK)

BOLLING: But there was also a lot of talk. Now the reason why I know this,
because I was in the building in 1993 when it was blown up by Sheikh Omar
Abdel-Rahman, who is The Blind Sheikh who build -- who devastated -- who device
the plan to blow up the World trade Center in '93 -- didn't worked but he was a
Jersey City imam. And I remember, there were claims that his group, his whole
mosque was cheering the planes actually, finally doing what he tried to do in
1993. Whether or not it was a thousand, thousands, a few hundred, a handful, who
cares?

GUTFELD: Oh, I care.

BOLLING: There are must.

GUTFELD: I care. I care.

(CROSSTALK)

GUTFELD: What if Bernie Sanders said there were thousands of pro-lifers cheering
the Colorado shootings? You -- everybody at Fox would go -- show me the proof.
Show me the money.

BOLLING: It doesn't really matters. Because I know there were Muslims and Muslim
groups who were happy that the World Trade came down.

GUILFOYLE: Yeah.

BOLLING: And they were in the United States when that happened.

(CROSSTALK)

GUTFELD: Thousands or a group of people on a building. You have to be, you have
to be specific. It sounded like Trump.

(CROSSTALK)

BOLLING: I don't know if it was a group of people in the building, it was a
whole mosque. I don't know.

GUTFELD: Yeah.

BOLLING: I don't know. And I don't know if it was thousands, but none of us.

GUILFOYLE: I'm sure there are people that were happy.

(CROSSTALK)

PERINO: It has been thousands of Muslim-Americans cheering. There would be proof
of that evidence of that.

WILLIAMS: You know what.

PERINO: Once again, the candidate puts his defenders in a position of sounding
ridiculous.

WILLIAMS: Well, you know what strike me about this whole conversation.

(CROSSTALK)

WILLIAMS: Everybody doesn't know.

(CROSSTALK)

WILLIAMS: Oh, Trump is doing is wrong.

BOLLING: Because.

WILLIAMS: No, Trump.

(CROSSTALK)

BOLLING: It's not ridiculous. I remember these new stories. I remember hearing
about it, not only Patterson, but like Jersey City, maybe other places in the
country as well. I'm not defending.

GUTFELD: There's no physical evidence.

(CROSSTALK)

BOLLING: I'm simply saying.

GUTFELD: And that was not only good.

BOLLING: No one knows for sure. Who cares if it is a thousand or a handful?

GUTFELD: I care when a politician says he saw it with his own eyes, thousands.
He was probably mistaken. He saw.

(CROSSTALK)

GUTFELD: I know, but the point is -- if somebody is lying, you got to call them
out. That's what we're here for.

GUILFOYLE: But there's no physical proof of unicorns and you still believe in
them.

GUTFELD: That is true.

(CROSSTALK)

GUTFELD: How dare you bring up unicorns?

(LAUGHTER)

GUILFOYLE: Hillary Clinton seems pretty comfortable with President Obama's ISIS
strategy, but that wasn't always the case, you remember? So who should we
believe Hillary then or Hillary now?

PERINO: Greg loves that bump.

All right. President Obama's strategy to defeat ISIS, has it worked so far? And
if Hillary Clinton wins the White House, she's already signaling that she's not
going to change it.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HILLARY CLINTON (D), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I agree with the president's point
that we're not putting American combat troops back into Syria or Iraq.

At this point I cannot conceive of any circumstances where I would agree to do
that. We don't know yet how many Special Forces might be needed. How many
trainers, and surveillance and enablers might be needed.

But in terms of thousands of combat troops like some on the Republican side are
recommending, I think that should be a nonstarter. I think it gives ISIS a new
recruitment tool if we get back in the fight.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

PERINO: General Jack Keane advises not to rule out a ground war.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

GEN. JACK KEANE, FORMER ARMY VICE CHIEF OF STAFF: I don't agree that we should
deploy combat troops at this time. I agree we should go all in on the
president's initial strategy which is provide all-in, all the trainers, all the
advisers, all the equipment that we need.

Have SOP (ph) actually conducting large raid. Put the safe zones in Syria that
we're all been discussing for weeks now. Go all in on that. Provide the maximum
support and try to get the maximum results. And then, if that fails, then you
have to do something else. And that's why you got to keep combat brigades on the
table. You can't discuss it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

PERINO: That wasn't necessarily Hillary Clinton's position two years ago when
her book came out. She went out of her way to make sure she was distancing
herself from the president on the Syria issue. Take a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CLINTON: I write a whole chapter about Syria in my book "Hard Choices." and I
call it a wicked problem, because it is. And in the book, I obviously write
about what is now publicly known. I recommended that we do more in the very
beginning to support moderate opposition. Because I believed at the time that
they would be overwhelmed by Assad's military force and that they would open up
the door to extremists coming in.

CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Should you have
pushed harder?

CLINTON: We pushed very hard. But as I say in my book, I believe that Harry
Truman was right, the buck stops with the president.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

PERINO: All right, Eric. It might be a long year listening to the back and forth
and the waffling. What do you make of that?

BOLLING: The buck stops with the president. General Dunford said that ISIS is
not -- strategically is not contained; it's been spreading since 2010. General
Dunford is the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, which basically oversee
the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, and the National Guard.

And Ash Carter said we are at war with ISIS.

Everyone around President Obama seems to understand what the problem is except
for President Obama. Now, he's sending what I hear 200 strategic advisers to the
area. It's a good start. You need to really step up the bombing campaign. Take a
page out of Vladimir Putin's bombing playbook and destroy targets. They hit
something like 23 targets in the last two or three days.

GUTFELD: I love that score.

BOLLING: Targets? I know. Whatever, Syrian targets, do what he's doing.

PERINO: What do you make of Hillary Clinton saying, like, two years ago she
wanted to distance herself from the president. And now she's saying that she
would just basically go along with what's not happening right now?

GUTFELD: Forget -- like, forget O'Malley and Bernie Sanders. The next debate
should be Hillary versus Hillary. Just have her sit there and respond to every
contradiction. By the way...

GUILFOYLE: That's a great commercial.

GUTFELD: It is. This is a great time to be evil. Because the good, the west,
keeps telling the evil what we're doing. We're always giving them a heads up.
We're always telling them what's off the table. "We're not going to send troops
in. We might not do a lot of bombing. We're not going to waterboard you."

GUILFOYLE: We're going to pull out.

GUTFELD: We're going to pull out. We'll tell you when we're pulling out.

BOLLING: Forty-five minutes. Heads up.

GUTFELD: Heads up, we're going to drop leaflets. It's a great time to be evil.

PERINO: And they also know that we're very sensitive to the oil fields and the
environmental damage that could take place.

Kimberly, we know that Hillary Clinton's team is heavily focus-grouped, right?
What this tells me that she knows that her supporters will more likely more
intensely want to vote for her, if she has this position rather than the
position she had two years ago.

GUILFOYLE: Correct, and what she's trying to do is make sure she doesn't
alienate the people supporting Bernie Sanders or the Elizabeth Warren-its, those
type of people. But then we're going to have a new thought. I don't know if it's
going to be Hillary before or Hillary then when the general election is
happening, and she'll be saying something else, because she'll be tacking to go
center-right to be able to be formidable in the general election and win.

PERINO: I wanted to ask you that, Juan. Does Bernie Sanders really want to win?
Because it seems to me that she is actually trying to tack to the left and sort
of to make sure that she doesn't have a problem with the Bernie Sanders people.

And Kimberly is exactly right. Everyone assumes that Hillary Clinton is so
hawkish on the inside. But she just can't show it until she's a general election
candidate. Do you buy that?

WILLIAMS: Yes. Well, right now she's for the no-fly zone, and Bernie Sanders and
O'Malley are not for the no fly-zone. Thinking that if you establish a no-fly
zone, which is the Obama White House logic, that then you have to protect it.
And that in protecting it, eventually you have to put troops on the ground. So
she is more hawkish.

GUILFOYLE: You have to enforce it.

WILLIAMS: Yes, you have to enforce it. Enforce, protect. So I think she is more
hawkish. I think she's been consistently more hawkish. More hawkish in terms of
the raid that took out bin Laden. So I think she's running in the general
election, I don't think she cares what Bernie and O'Malley...

GUILFOYLE: She's about as hawkish as a finch, OK? There's no hawk in her. I've
got to tell you.

WILLIAMS: I think it's only on the right, on the Republican side. Kimberly, is
that only Senator Graham and former Senator Santorum who say we should put
troops on the ground.

PERINO: I think that many of them have said, "Let's listen to our commanders.
Let's not make decisions in the middle of an election."

WILLIAMS: Yes, but you just heard Jack Keane. Jack Keane just said -- Jack
Keane, I know, is someone you greatly admire, just said he doesn't think we
should have troops on the ground.

GUILFOYLE: No, but he also said we shouldn't rule it out. He's saying go all in
on the plan that is in place. So far we're giving a little bit of verbiage, a
little bit of rhetoric, but we are not pushing forward with the actual specifics
that we were intending to do.

BOLLING: Can I just point out that joint -- General Dunford, who is the joint
chiefs -- chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, is the No. 1 military adviser
to the president. Appointed by the president, who says -- the strategy is not
working.

PERINO: Not only that, Eric, but you add, he says that. And he says it's been
spreading since 2010. Which to me gives you a perfect opening if you're
Republicans to attack her, because she was on the team who said she was against
what President Obama was doing but did not do anything about it until she wrote
her book.

GUILFOYLE: She's part of his foreign policy. This is it.

PERINO: Kimberly meant no offense to the finches.

GUILFOYLE: They're very cute and delicate little creatures.

PERINO: And so cute.

GUTFELD: And they're so delicious.

PERINO: All right, we've got to go. Next, one university president is fed up
with all of those easily offended students on campus. He has a message for them
you're going to hear from Eric when "The Five" returns.

BOLLING: The president of Oklahoma Wesleyan University has a message for all
those college students demanding politically-correct campuses: grow up or get
out.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DR. EVERETT PIPER, OKLAHOMA WESLEYAN UNIVERSITY: I'm more interested in you
learning virtue than them playing the victim card. I'm more interested in you
feeling uncomfortable during the chapel and you feeling some discomfort as a
result of going to our college and our university. College is not about being
safe. College is about learning what's good, it's about challenging your
character, not coddling you so that you feel comfortable.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BOLLING: and here's how Dr. Everett Piper would define what's happening on
college campuses today.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

PIPER: I would call it ideological fascism, quite frankly. And let me explain
that. Do we want ideological fascism where you're required to conform. You must
agree with us. You must believe like we believe. You must believe the ideas that
we hold dear. And if you deviate. If you have a contrary idea, we will squash
you, we will crush you, we will expel you. That's ideological fascism. That's
not academic freedom. It's not intellectual liberty.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BOLLING: Kind of -- Greg, kind of refreshing to have a president finally step up
and say things we were talking about.

GUTFELD: Dr. Piper should be the pied piper and lead other academics in this
direction.

The big hypocrisy of the safe space is that that's where you see the worst
behavior. Where you see this on campus, that's where you see the screaming and
the vandalism and the spitting and the threats. Within the safe space. Once you
remove standards or deportment or ethics, you're left with, like, a grotesque
circus of misfits who do not know how to behave. That's where you're going
unless you listen to the pied piper.

BOLLING: Pied Professor Piper. Say that fast.

Dana, your thoughts on this?

By the way, safe space, trigger words. White privilege. What's going on?

PERINO: I didn't -- I don't have an answer to this. It's actually more of a
question. So if you have answers, you can send them to me. But I just don't
understand what these students children or, over 18.

What do they expect to get out of college? What do they want at the end of the
process when they graduate? What do they expect that they were going to get?
Where did we go wrong in telling them that they were going to get something that
was not in existence? I mean, I'm trying to blame myself, basically, so I can
feel guilty about it.

BOLLING: Very good point. So what happens when these kids go out into the job
world, go out into the business world?

PERINO: Right. Are you going to hire them?

BOLLING: Well, maybe they're not. Maybe they're not going to get hired by
business. Is government going to say, "Hey, don't worry. We have safe spaces in
the back of the DMV"?

WILLIAMS: You know what's interesting about this story with Dr. Piper? He -- the
young person who complained to him was actually complaining about a sermon. And
the young person said they felt discomforted by the message in the sermon, to
which Dr. Piper said, "That's the idea. We're trying to get you to confess your
sins, your inadequacies. That's what it's all about."

So it was in a religious setting.

But you know, in the general, I could agree -- I couldn't agree more. The
sentiment that he expresses, which is, hey, you've got to be a critical thinker.
You've got to be challenged. You've got to come out of class, arguing with your
classmates. I think that's great. I want my son to do that.

BOLLING: You want more of that?

WILLIAMS: I want more. More.

BOLLING: Not to be...

(CROSSTALK)

WILLIAMS: This microaggression stuff.

GUILFOYLE: Ideological fascism versus academic freedom. Choice academic freedom.
Stretch your mind. Grow, grow.

By the way, have you noticed, like, college students these days are like the new
teenagers? Like, what is the problem here?

PERINO: Yes. Delayed adolescence.

GUILFOYLE: And I keep telling them, there's not going to be the job fair truck
going to pull up in front of, you know, your house and you a, like, sweet job
and the keys to a car and an awesome 401(k).

BOLLING: All right. Check this out. Next, an annual Christmas time tradition on,
"The Five." Our secret Santa picks. Stick around.

BOLLING: Santa Claus is coming to town, and we're going to help him with the
gift-giving on Christmas Eve when we hand out our secret Santa presents.

It's time now to find out who we've got this year. I'm going to start with you,
Doctor Bolling. Because you're famous and you have friends who are rich in high
political circles, they must give great gifts.

BOLLING: I know. I've gotten the liberal the last two or three years.

WILLIAMS: Is that right?

PERINO: True.

WILLIAMS: Gutfeld?

PERINO: He gives good gifts.

WILLIAMS: All right. Here we go.

BOLLING: First of all, I have to make sure it's not myself.

WILLIAMS: It can't be you.

Good?

BOLLING: We're good.

GUILFOYLE: It's me. He just looked at me. Is it me? I know what I want.

PERINO: Very good at poker.

GUILFOYLE: I caught you.

PERINO: I pick myself.

GUTFELD: Oh. There's a surprise.

PERINO: The trend -- the trend is that you are -- have given gifts to yourself
this year. I pitched that as a story for the producers.

GUTFELD: Of course. It's always about you. What's this? Who put this in there?
It's disgusting. Now I've got to wash my hands.

GUILFOYLE: Greg, don't pick me, but you'll give me a picture of yourself again.

GUTFELD: Yes. It's my favorite gift.

GUILFOYLE: My office has all these pictures of your face, framed.

GUTFELD: Somebody's getting a picture.

WILLIAMS: There you go.

PERINO: I already have one.

GUILFOYLE: There's, like, hardly anything left in here.

WILLIAMS: Well, now, it's just got to be two of us, right?

PERINO: What about the people on radio.

GUILFOYLE: Somebody messed this up?

WILLIAMS: We just pulled out another green card.

There you go.

Are you cool? All right.

GUTFELD: I already know what that is.

WILLIAMS: All right. So we're all set.

PERINO: A little ridiculous.

WILLIAMS: Now let me ask you, what was the best gift you ever got?

GUILFOYLE: I keep getting presents from him.

WILLIAMS: Well, that's...

GUILFOYLE: You mean the ones from "The Five"?

WILLIAMS: No, I mean just from anybody.

GUILFOYLE: A Mercedes.

GUTFELD: I just think it's wonderful that we all got a green card.

WILLIAMS: You got a Mercedes?

PERINO: I got a play kitchen.

WILLIAMS: A play kitchen?

PERINO: Yes. That my mom and dad stayed up all night making.

WILLIAMS: As a child.

GUILFOYLE: I got nice presents in my office. I got two engagement rings. I got
silk pajamas. I got three salamis, four boxes of grits. A whole thing of
chocolates, as well.

WILLIAMS: Men just send you engagement rings?

GUILFOYLE: I mean, I assume they're men.

WILLIAMS: "One More Thing" up next.

GUTFELD: Time now for "One More Thing." Let's go to Kimberly Guilfoyle.

GUILFOYLE: Thank you so much. Greg, I really appreciate it. How great you've
been to me all week.

So the group Wreaths Across America wants to put 230,000 wreaths, put them on
all of the graves and markers at Arlington National Cemetery this Christmas.
Last week, 30,000 they were short. Today they're now short approximately 8,000
wreaths.

I believe people at home can help with this. The deadline is December 9. And
they will place the wreaths at the ceremony on December 12. You can help. So
please visit their website, WreathsAcrossAmerica.org. It's there on the bottom
of your screen. It's a very nice thing to do...

GUTFELD: It is.

GUILFOYLE: ... to honor the troops and those who have served us faithfully.

GUTFELD: Excellent.

GUILFOYLE: Fantastic.

GUTFELD: All right. Dana.

PERINO: All right. If you haven't heard about this amazing young woman before,
aren't you glad you watch "One More Thing," because this is where you get to
hear her? Her name is Marlana VanHoose. And she was born with a virus that left
her blind and been diagnosed with cerebral palsy at age 2. She is now 19 and
performing, and she's a powerhouse. Check this out. She was at the Baltimore
Ravens/Cleveland football Browns -- football game last night and she sang the
national anthem.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MARLENA VANHOOSE, SANG AT BALTIMORE RAVENS GAME (singing): For the land of the
free and the home of the brave.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

PERINO: I thought that was amazing. So congratulations to you, Marlana. We look
forward to hearing more from you.

GUILFOYLE: God bless her, well done.

BOLLING: The craziest two minutes of all of NFL football last night at the end
of that game. Terrific.

PERINO: More so than the Broncos beating the Patriots?

BOLLING: Unbelievable.

PERINO: I didn't know that.

GUTFELD: All right. I'm moving. I'm actually moving. Which is kind of big news.
I'm moving "The Greg Gutfeld Show" from Sunday at 10 p.m. to Saturday at 10 p.m.
That's like moving from "Sesame Street" to the red light district. It's going to
change. Things are going to be crazy. God knows what we're going to get up to.
But whatever we get up to, it's going to be bad, really, really bad.

GUILFOYLE: Send me a picture and frame it.

GUTFELD: I will. That's disgusting. Eric.

BOLLING: OK, so I drive into work every day, and sometimes you see some pretty
crazy stuff. Sometimes you come in real early and see people still out from the
night before. This wasn't the case. I'm driving on the West Side Highway, coming
from North to South, West Side Highway. And check it out. I'm seeing this
motorcycle, and I'm looking at the passenger on the back of that motorcycle.

GUILFOYLE: Is that jasper?

BOLLING: It's a Golden Retriever on the back of the motorcycle.

PERINO: Loving it.

BOLLING: So I had to take this video, and look at how much this dog is enjoying
that.

GUTFELD: Is that legal?

BOLLING: I doubt it's legal but boy, was that dog is loving it.

GUILFOYLE: I think it's legal. And Bolling, you would be driving very fast and
you don't have two hands on the wheel.

BOLLING: Did I say I was taking that video?

GUTFELD: It's amazing what Lou Dobbs gets up to in the morning -- Juan.

WILLIAMS: Well, it was a wonderful weekend because Mary Katharine Ham, our FOX
colleague, after five and a half hours of labor, gave birth to Garnet J. Brewer.
Seven pounds, 21 inches. Mom says that Garnet is named after Garnet Canyon,
Wyoming, Dana. Because she and her husband, late husband Jake, had a wonderful,
wonderful trip there. And so the baby is named Garnet Jake Brewer. And in fact,
sister Georgia and baby Garnet are happy, happy, happy. Everybody is safe. It
was a natural labor and successful, which is a blessing from God for that whole
family.

GUILFOYLE: God bless her.

WILLIAMS: God bless.

BOLLING: Yes. Good one.

GUTFELD: Set your DVR so you never miss an episode of "The Five." That's it for
us. "Special Report" next.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120101cb.258

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            December 1, 2015 Tuesday

              SHOW: FOX SPECIAL REPORT WITH BRET BAIER 6:00 PM EST

President Obama at Climate Change Summit; More on Hillary Clinton and Benghazi;
GOP Candidates Continue Sparring; New York City Taking Measures to Encourage
Reduced Sodium Intake; President Speaks at Climate Change Conference about
Combating ISIS; Senator Ted Cruz Rises in Iowa Poll

BYLINE: Bret Baier, Laura Ingle; Kevin Corke; Peter Doocy; Ed Henry; Carl
Cameron; Shannon Bream; Catherine Herridge

GUESTS: Charles Krauthammer, A.B. Stoddard, Steve Hayes

SECTION: NEWS, DOMESTIC

LENGTH: 7134  words


BRETT BAIER, FOX NEWS HOST: President Obama leaves the Paris global warming
summit empty-handed and he says don't look for Russia to come around on Syria
any time soon.

This is "Special Report."

Good evening, welcome to Washington. I'm Brett Baier.

President Obama returns to the White House this hour. Fresh off a climate change
conference overshadowed by terrorism. While the president insists a lot was
accomplished in Paris, the summit will likely be remembered more for what did
not happen on global warming, ISIS, and Syria, than what did.

Correspondent Kevin Corke wraps up the president's trip from the French capital.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

KEVIN CORKE, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Calling it an economic and
security imperative, President Obama wrapped up the historic Paris climate
summit by asking world leaders to attack climate change with the same
determination used in the fight against global terrorism.

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The reason is because this one
trend, climate change, affects all trends. Before long, we're going to have to
devote more and more and more of our economic and military resources not to
growing opportunities for our people, but to adapting to the various
consequences of a changing planet.

CORKE: While attempting to make the climate change/terrorism link, the president
was forced to acknowledge the inconvenient truth that global warming or not,
terrorism and war remains dark realities. Today, the Pentagon confirmed that
hundreds more Americans will not head overseas to support the fight against
ISIS.

ASHTON CARTER, U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY: We're sending on President Obama's orders
and the chairman's and my advice, special operations forces personnel to Syria
to support the fight against ISIL.

CORKE: The move is just the latest change in strategy for White House that has
struggled to form a cohesive plan to fight the terror group.

On the campaign trail, Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton rejected calls
for more U.S. ground troops.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE REPORTER: Under no circumstances would you not do that?

HILLARY CLINTON (D), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Well, at this point I cannot
conceive of any circumstances where I would agree to do that.

CORKE: Meanwhile, secretary of state John Kerry told "Rolling Stone" that the
world can defeat ISIS. Telling the magazine quote "all of that can come to an
abrupt end if we get our act together."

But on Capitol Hill, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Joe
Dunnford admitted that contrary to the president's bold proclamation about
containing ISIS earlier this month?

GEN. JOE DUNNFORD, JOINS CHIEF OF STAFF: We have not contained ISIL.

CORKE: Back in Paris, the president's latest meeting with Russian president
Vladimir Putin Turkish president Erdogan, did little to ease tensions between
Moscow and Ankara in the wake of the recent downing of a Russian military
aircraft by the Turks. In fact FOX News has learned that the Russians have
expanded their military operations in Syria to include a second air base even as
the president predicted the kremlin could work with the west there.

OBAMA: I don't expect you're going to see a 180 turn on their strategy over the
next several weeks. They have invested for years now in keeping us out of power.

CORKE: And as if dealing with terrorism and the Syrian crisis weren't enough,
the president was asked if he was worries the agreements reached during this
climate summit might be undone by a future GOP president?

OBAMA: Just with respect to my successor, let me first of all say that I'm
anticipating a democrat succeeding me.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

CORKE: Brett, the president followed up the little equip about 2016 by adding he
had confidence in the wisdom of the American people, whatever that supposed to
mean. I should also point out we learn tonight that the Germans are prepared to
send some 1200 troops to Syria to assist in the coalition's battle against ISIS
- Brett.

BAIER: Kevin Corke live in Paris. Kevin, thank you.

An arrest tonight in the Paris terror attacks. Officials say the suspect is
believed to have helped secure lodging for the man who planned the assault and
who later died during a police raid. The only other person in custody is actual
the landlord who allegedly provided housing for that planner.

A short time ago, House Republicans up on Capitol Hill pushed through two
resolutions blocking President Obama's plan to force Steve cuts in greenhouse
gas emissions from U.S. power plants. The Senate approved identical motions last
month. The president has vowed to veto both measures.

We're learning more tonight about the special powers used by the federal
government to keep track of what you look at on the internet.

Correspondent Peter Doocy tells us about what you may consider a very
inconvenient truth.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): How would you like it if the
search history on your personal computer filled with revealing personal
information wasn't personal anymore? Like when you Google the former flame to
see what they were up to? Or the time you used to browser to diagnose a medical
condition? Even that mistakes when you mistyped something into a search bar and
got results that were inappropriate.

Well, we learned this week the FBI can access all that without a warrant, even
if the user hasn't been charged with a crime. All that collection has security
experts concerned.

BRIAN FINCH, PILLSBURY LAW: It may be a problem that if the FBI is sweeping in
and all of a sudden all of this information, they may be providing a pool of
information that foreign governments could actually sweep up and use in order to
actually conduct further espionage.

DOOCY: The feds issued something called a national security letter to make
demands about a person's locations, purchases, contacts and searches. Service
providers get about 60 every day and they come with a gag order. But one
company, Calyx, wouldn't comply.

NICHOLAS MERRILL, CALYX INTERNET ACCESS: When I got to the part of the letter
that said I could never tell anybody that I received the letter, it really
alarmed me. It alarmed me because it seemed to be a clear violation of my right
to free speech.

DOOCY: If there was a credible threat to the homeland, former CIA director Jim
Woolsey believes that citizens wouldn't mind agents monitoring their activity.

JAMES WOOLSEY, FORMER CIA DIRECTOR: Let's say it's something like what happened
in Paris. People will start saying, well, I need the government to protect me,
and they will do what they did, I think, after 9/11 which is be pretty tolerant
of the government.

DOOCY: Woolsey also argued that private companies like Amazon keep a ton of data
on consumers with less oversight than federal agencies that do the same. But
people see D.C. differently for a reason.

WOOLSEY: So if they wonder in the government why people don't trust them, they
don't have to look much further than what happened with the IRS in the last
several years.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

DOOCY: So before you search for something, just know that even if you haven't
been accused of anything, you're online queries may not remain private. They
could end up on a dry erase board at the J. Edgar Hoover building that a group
of agents are staring at wondering, what's up with that guy? - Brett.

BAIER: Peter, thank you.

Stocks were up today. The Dow gained 168. The S&P 500 finished ahead 22. The
Nasdaq was up 48.

There are a new questions tonight about what Hillary Clinton knew, and where she
was getting her information following the Benghazi terror attacks.

Chief White House correspondent Ed Henry tonight with the latest fallout from
the Clinton email scandal.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

ED HENRY, FOX NEWS CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Some of Hillary
Clinton's newly released emails may contradict her Benghazi testimony in October
when she claimed to not be aware that memos with sensitive information about
Libya she received on her personal server from controversial adviser Sidney
Blumenthal were actually put together by former intelligence official Tyler
Drumhelder.

Republican select committee chairman Trey Gowdy pressed on whether the secretary
of state basically had an outside intelligence network and why she was not more
curious about the source of information on the September 11th 2012 terror
attacks and other matters, noting it was not really coming from Blumenthal.

CLINTON: I don't know who wrote them. He is the one that sent them to me.

REP. TREY GOWDY (R), CHAIRMAN, HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON BENGHAZI: Would you be
surprised to know not a single one of those was from him?

CLINTON: I don't know where he got the information.

GOWDY: Did you ask?

HENRY: Yet, the new emails show on September 12th, 2012, the night after the
attacks, Clinton received a message written by Drumheller, in which the former
CIA officer declared his sources quote "believe the attackers, having prepared
to launch their assault, took advantage of the cover provided by the
demonstrations in Benghazi, protesting an internet production or video seen as
disrespectful to the prophet Mohammed."

Raising more questions about Clinton's role in pushing the White House's
narrative, with national security adviser Susan Rice, that the video caused the
attacks. Since another new document revealed by the state department on Monday
shows Clinton met with Rice on September 14th, two days before the United
Nations ambassador infamously appeared on five Sunday talk shows.

SUSAN RICE, U.S. AMBASSADOR TO UNITED NATIONS: It was a spontaneous reaction to
what had just transpired in Cairo as a consequence of the video.

HENRY: There are also emails with the Clinton camp's reaction to her Benghazi
testimony back in 2013.

CLINTON: What difference at this point does it make?

HENRY: Mark Penn an adviser from Clinton's 2008 campaign emailed it was a
mistake. Declaring quote "looks more like they rattled you." While most other
advisers boasted they were doing high fives, a key cheerleader being top aide
Huma Abedin who emailed quote "I'm being flooded with emails about how you
rocked and you look fabulous."

(END VIDEOTAPE)

HENRY: Martin O'Malley jumped on the 2012 email with Clinton caucuses are quote
"creatures of the party extremes," might not play well in Iowa -- Brett.

BAIER: All right, Ed, thank you.

Up next, not a lot of holiday good cheer this season between Republican
presidential candidates, we'll show you that.

First, here's what some FOX affiliates around the country are covering tonight.

FOX 25 in Boston where lawyers for convicted marathon bomber Dzokhar Tsarnaev
are asking for a new trial. They say a recent Supreme Court ruling calls into
question 15 of the 30 counts against him. Tsarnaev was sentenced to death.

FOX 2 in San Francisco with a promise to newborn baby. Facebook founder Mark
Zuckerberg and his wife welcomed a baby girl named Max and they wrote in an open
letter, they will donate 99 percent of Zuckerberg's Facebook stock currently
worth $45 billion, with a B, to help promote equality for all children of the
next generation.

And this is a live look at Eden Prairie, Minnesota from FOX 9. The good news
story there, someone dropped a check for a half million dollars in a Salvation
Army Red Kettle Saturday. It's the largest single donation of its kind in the
twin cities. The anonymous donor says they hope to encourage others to give as
generously as they can this holiday season.

That's tonight's live look outside the beltway from "Special Report." We'll be
right back.

BAIER: It is the season of giving and the main combatant in the Republican
presidential race are giving each other a hard time tonight.

Here is chief political correspondent Carl Cameron.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

CARL CAMERON, FOX NEWS CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Jeb Bush is
emphasizing national security hoping to jump-start his campaign a new ad
featuring Medal of Honor winners touting his leadership with a swipe at Donald
Trump.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is the new reality show, this is serious business. This
is about the livelihood of our kids and grandkids. This commander-in- chief
requires training wheels?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This nation hungers for leadership. We need Jeb Bush.

CAMERON: Bush's ads will run three weeks in New Hampshire as supporters complain
the independent super PAC supporting Bush has been has been holding back. In
Iowa, Bush said the U.S. should re-implement the recently curtailed bulk
surveillance collections of communications data.

JEB BUSH (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: It is a key element of keeping our safe,
our civil liberties aren't being violated by having the NSA do its job.

CAMERON: Ted Cruz and at majority of Congress approved ending the NSA program on
privacy grounds. Marco Rubio wanted it continued and argues that Cruz and others
left the world less safe. Firing back, Cruz hit Rubio for backing U.S. military
action in Libya's civil war. Cruz opposed U.S. engagement in Libya. And amid
rising concerns that ISIS is emerging now in Libya slammed Rubio. Quote "Senator
Rubio emphatically supported Hillary Clinton in toppling Gadhafi in Libya. I
think that made no sense."

The next GOP debate is in two weeks. Trump threaten to boycott unless he has
paid $5 million to appear which he says he donate to veterans charities. He made
the threat before the last two debates and balked. This time he explained why.

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: The problem is they will say that
trump is chicken which I'm not. One thing I'm not is chicken. OK?

CAMERON: Cruz and Chris Christie who have been reluctant to criticize Trump now
both say he will not be president. Christie slammed Trump's recent apparent
mockery of a disabled journalist.

GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: He shouldn't be making fun of
people's disabilities. It's just not worthy of someone running for president of
the United States.

CAMERON: The governor of New Jersey also rebuked Trump's debunked claims that
thousands of Muslims in New Jersey cheered the 20019/11 attacks.

CHRISTIE: What went on that day in New Jersey was not anything like we said. And
there's no film or video of it to prove it. He said he saw it on TV, it didn't
happen.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

CAMERON: Republican office holders and candidates are now increasingly open
about their worry that the longer Trump is in the race, the more difficult his
rhetoric could make it for him to get elected -- Brett.

BAIER: Carl, thank you.

A lot of support for Senator Cruz is coming from the faith community. Tonight
correspondent Shannon Bream looks at how Cruz and others are targeting
evangelicals.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

BOB VANDER PLAATS, THE FAMILY LEADER: They are crucial.

SHANNON BREAM, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Bob Vander Plaats heads up
the highly influential Iowa-based conservative group, the Family Leader, and
says candidates who hope to top the state's caucuses on February 1st know they
will have to win over evangelicals.

PLAATS: You need the base to come out because they are the ones who do the
door-knocking, they do the phone calls. They do the hard work.

BREAM: The Family Leader hosts numerous events aimed at probing what the
candidates personally believe.

CARLY FIORINA (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I think it's important that we elect
a leader of faith and we elect a leader as well who knows that more prayer not
less is necessary in public life and in all our lives.

BREAM: The most recent Quinnipiac poll out of the Hawkeye state shows
evangelicals making a shift. Ben Carson's support dropping from 36-24 percent,
while Ted Cruz rocketed from 13 to 27 percent. Cruz has been unabashed about
courting evangelicals including kicking off his White House run at the world's
largest Christian college, Liberty University.

SEN. TED CRUZ (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: That's the only way we win the
general is to bring back to the polls the millions of evangelical Christians,
the millions of Reagan Democrats of working men and women who stayed home in '08
and 12.

BREAM: And as he rises in the polls, Marco Rubio is attracting attention from
Iowa pastor who is say they like what they are hearing.

SEN. MARCO RUBIO (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: As far as my relationship with
Jesus Christ, the best way I have been able to describe it to people who are not
believers is God became a man, came down to earth and died for our sins.

BREAM: Others say savvy Iowa churchgoers remain skeptical of the party's
front-runner.

TRUMP: When I talk about the bible, it's very personal. I don't want to get into
--

UNIDENTIFIED MALE REPORTER: You mean a lot to or cite.

TRUMP: The bible means a lot to me, but I don't want to get into specifics.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

BREAM: Experts continue to debate whether evangelicals can really tip the scales
in an election pointing to a pew research poll saying that 40 percent of
evangelicals self-identify as Democrats, leaning Democrat or say they have no
party leaning at all -- Brett.

BAIER: Shannon, thank you.

Still ahead, another effort by the city of New York to tell you how or what to
eat or drink. This time the target, salt.

First the results of a U.N. probe into Iran's nuclear ambitions, a definite
maybe.

BAIER: This is a FOX News alert breaking right now.

The Democratic attorney general in Illinois is calling for a federal civil
rights investigation into the Chicago police department. It comes just hours
after Chicago's top cop is unceremoniously fired by the mayor over the killing
of an African-American teen by a white police officer.

Correspondent Mike Tobin has the latest tonight from Chicago.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

MIKE TOBIN, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Amid a firestorm of racial
tension, Chicago mayor Rahm Emanuel demanded and received the resignation of the
police superintendent he appointed, Garry McCarthy. However, Emanuel never get
specifics about McCarthy had done to merit his firing.

MAYOR RAHM EMANUEL (D), CHICAGO: He has become an issue rather than dealing with
the issue and a distraction.

TOBIN: The ouster of McCarthy is not a surprise. In October, city council's
black caucus demanded his firing in light of the gun violence which still
plagues the south and west side.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Should I go down with my own gun?

TOBIN: That was before the impactible dash cam video was released as per a court
order, the one that showed Officer Jason Van Dyke unload an entire clip into
17-year-old Laquan McDonald, most shots after McDonald was on the ground.

First-degree murder charges against Van Dyke were not enough to calm community
anger. Demonstrators still took to the streets last week. They called for the
firing of McCarthy and others, furious that the city held the video and Van Dyke
did not face charges for more than a year.

CORNELL BROOKS, PRESIDENT, NAACP: Those in office who failed to hold accountable
those who are responsible for misconduct, need to leave office.

TOBIN: The family of another young African-American male, 25-year-old Ronald
Johnson has come forward. They want video released of his shooting. Eight days
before the McDonald shooting. Their attorney says Chicago police shot Johnson in
the back and planted a weapon on him.

MICHAEL OPPENHEIMER, JOHNSON FAMILY ATTORNEY: He never had a weapon. The police
department and the city are still covering this up.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

TOBIN: Illinois attorney general Lisa Madigan has now sent a letter to U.S.
attorney general, Loretta Lynch, asking for a federal investigation into the
pattern and practices of Chicago police, highlighting what she called the use of
excessive and unlawful force and a lack of accountability -- Brett.

BAIER: Mike Tobin live in Chicago tonight.

Opening statements could begin tomorrow in the first trial in Baltimore
resulting from the death of an African-American man in police custody last
spring. The pool of prospective jurors has been narrowed to a smaller group in
the manslaughter trial of William porter one of six officers accused in the
death of 25-year-old Freddie Gray who sustained fatal injuries in the back of a
transport van in April.

Now back to foreign policy and questions left unanswered at the Paris summit
such as did Iran really try to produce nuclear weapons? The United Nations says
maybe. It doesn't know. It isn't sure. Despite months of investigation.

Chief intelligence correspondent Catherine Herridge is here to tell us why we
can't get an answer to a simple yes-or-no question.

Good evening, Catherine.

CATHERINE HERRIDGE, FOX NEWS CHIEF INTELLIGENCE CORRESPONDENT: Well, Brett, the
U.N. nuclear watchdog said its assessment of Iran's nuclear program is
incomplete. President Obama said in Paris today that Tehran's pathway to Iran to
the bomb is effectively blocked because of his administration's leadership.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

OBAMA: You know, the same was true with respect to making sure that Iran didn't
get a nuclear weapon. We had to lead the way, but ultimately, because we reached
out and brought our allies and partners together. We're able to achieve goals we
could not have achieved by ourselves.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HERRIDGE: But last week, the international atomic energy agency or IAEA
confirmed the findings of a five-month investigation into whether Iran has a
secret nuclear weapons program are not clear-cut.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

YUKIYA AMANO, IAEA DIRECTOR GENERAL: This is -- we have pieces, we have a better
understanding now and I will analyze.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HERRIDGE: Critics say years of renovation work at one of the most controversial
military sites in Iran scrubbed evidence of nuclear weapons development,
including the removal of a testing chamber for a warhead. The IAEA review
matters because it's supposed to show how close Tehran got to the bomb and it's
a principal condition of the Obama administration's July nuclear deal. But if a
site like this is still a mystery, a member of the house intelligence committee
recently said sanctions must remain in place.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MIKE POMPEO (R-KS), HOUR INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE: As the primary guarantor of
this deal, the administration has an obligation to redouble our efforts to get
the surveillance and the verification right. Such that what the president said
would be true. That the path for Iran to get a nuclear weapon were really close.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HERRIDGE: An effort to implement the deal, a major legacy issue for the Obama
White House, critics claim the administration is too quick to give Tehran a pass
on its past bad acts, but administration officials emphasize that the Iran has
cooperated with the IAEA and there is no reason to slow down the deal, Brett.

BAIER: Catherine, thank you.

HERRIDGE: You are welcome.

BAIER: Coming up, shaking the salt habit, New York City tries to get you to go
easy on the sodium in a not so subtle way.

BAIER: And now some fresh pickings from the "Political Grapevine."

As the old G.I. Joe cartoon used to say, knowing is half the battle. The
inspector general for Housing and Urban Development, or HUD, knows when he's
been beaten. The I.G. cannot audit part of HUD's books because of improper
budgeting and inaccurate reporting. The report named nine material weaknesses,
eight significant deficiencies in internal controls, and six instances of
noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations. One example, the Government
National Mortgage Association did not accurately account for some budgetary
resources and was simply not auditable. Try using that excuse on your tax
return.

The amount in question -- almost $20 billion. The department is promising to
work closely with the I.G. to create a more effective HUD.

Apparently this whole "will of the people" thing is overrated. Five illegal
immigrants are suing the state of Oregon to overturn a ballot initiative that
denies them driver's licenses. Two-thirds of Oregon voters opted to reinstate
that ban last year despite being outspent 10-one. And 35 of 36 counties and
every congressional district voted to reject issuing licenses even though most
are represented by Democrats. The lawsuit alleges the ban is unconstitutional
because it denies illegal immigrants privileges based on a membership in a
disfavored minority group. Supporters say it is not the responsibility of the
state to make illegal immigrants comfortable or enable them to drive to jobs
they're not supposed to have.

Finally government financial fumbles -- Oklahoma Republican Senator James
Langford has compiled a memorable and miserable new list of government waste
nightmares. Some are not new to the grapevine, like the $43 million gas station
in Afghanistan. Other costly lowlights include a half-million dollars to the
state department for consultants on how to tell the truth to Congress. And
$65,000 for the National Park Service to demonstrate what happens to bugs when
the lights go out.

Salt shaming tonight in New York City, it's part of the city's ongoing effort to
inform you or guilt you into living healthier. Correspondent Laura Ingle has the
bittersweet details from the big apple.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

DR. MARY BASSETT, NEW YORK CITY HEALTH COMMISSIONER: This is a health measure.
We're talking about the leading cause of death.

LAURA INGLE, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: The New York City Department of Health's
new warning system is designed to alert consumers that they could be ordering a
meal that is packed with an entire day's worth of sodium. Diners in New York
City will see black warning labels with a salt shaker icon next to items with
the recommended daily limit, 2,300 milligrams or more, or roughly a teaspoon of
salt. The rule applies to restaurants with 15 or more locations nationwide.
Chains that don't comply run the risk of a $200 fine. New York City's health
commissioner hopes this will help people eat healthier.

BASSETT: Many New Yorkers are not aware of the connection between sodium and
high blood pressure, stroke, and heart attack, the important leading causes of
death in our city and our nation.

INGLE: The National Restaurant Association calls the new rule an overreach of
local government, arguing printing new menus is a financial burden for
franchisees. The organization is suing the health department.

ANGELO AMADOR, NATIONAL RESTAURANT ASSOCIATION: We will like this law
invalidated and we would like an injunction issued by the courts as soon as
possible to prevent the cost and the harm to these businesses in New York.

INGLE: So far consumer reaction is mixed.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The more information, the better. I think we're becoming so
much more aware of what we're putting into our bodies these days.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You do salt now, next it's too much pepper. Then it's too
much cilantro. You start with one, you start with another and it's -- it's going
to be too much. It's too much.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

INGLE: This is just the latest public health initiative for the city which has
included restrictions on smoking, calorie counts on menus, and of course that
push to set limits on large sugary drinks which the New York state Supreme Court
ultimately blocked. Bret?

BAIER: Laura, thank you.

President Obama gets no deal on climate change and does not appear to make any
real progress against ISIS while in Paris. We'll get reaction from the panel
when we come back.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, (D) PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I don't think they're gaining
strength. What is true is that from the start our goal has been first to
contain, and we have contained them.

GEN. JOSEPH DUNFORD, JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF CHAIRMAN: We have not contained ISIL.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Have they been contained at any time since 2010?

DUNFORD: Tactically in areas they have been. Strategically they have spread
since 2010.

OBAMA: We've got to choke them off. We have to choke off how they make money.
We've got to choke off their ability to bring in new fighters.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BAIER: The president today in Paris wrapping up the climate change conference,
also talking about the fight against ISIS. We'll talk a little bit more about
the plan in Syria as this administration sees it. Up on Capitol Hill, the
defense secretary today saying there is a plan to put more troops in both Iraq
and Syria.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ASHTON CARTER, DEFENSE SECRETARY: In full coordination with the government of
Iraq, we're deploying a specialized expeditionary targeting force to assist
Iraqi and Kurdish Peshmerga forces to put more pressure on ISIL. These special
operators will over time be able to conduct raids, free hostages, gather
intelligence and capture ISIL leaders. This force will also be in a position to
conduct unilateral operations in Syria.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BAIER: Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee looking on there, Mac
Thornberry. This in addition to the special ops forces heading into northern
Syria. Let's bring in Steve Hayes, senior writer for "The Weekly Standard," A.B.
Stoddard, associate editor of "The Hill," and syndicated columnist Charles
Krauthammer. Steve?

STEVE HAYES, SENIOR WRITER, "THE WEEKLY STANDARD": It was very interesting
listening to the Secretary of Defense Ash Carter take a much more aggressive
line, rhetorical line, I think, with respect to problem on ISIL. And you saw
Dunford say in effect they were never contained.

There seems to be two different messages coming out of the administration. On
the one hand you've got military and folks at the Pentagon saying we're taking
this seriously. We want to lead on this. Ash Carter just made remarks at Harvard
in which he said the United States will lead this coalition and we will defeat
ISIS, something that we haven't heard from the president of the United States.

At the same time, you have John Kerry saying we might be able to win if we get
our act together, which was reminiscent of the president's comments from June in
which, well, we don't quite have a strategy for ISIS yet, and I think consistent
with what we've seen from the president with respect to climate change. Where
the president seems to be much more enthusiastic and engaged in talking about
climate change and describing that problem in very apocalyptic terms but not
doing the same thing on ISIS.

So you're getting these two different messages coming from the administration. I
think the steps that we heard from the Pentagon were first steps. They were
positive. There were lots of details that we need to hear more about. But it's
still inconsistent with what we're hearing from the White House. And we've seen
over the past seven years that nothing matters more than what the White House
says and does.

BAIER: Yes. A.B.?

A.B. STODDARD, ASSOCIATE EDITOR, "THE HILL": I thought that it was heartening
that the secretary of defense wanted to be specific about the kind of operations
that require a ground presence that we have not been able to target. We've not
been able to do certain things on the ground without a ground presence that is
now going to work in conjunction in Iraq with Iraqi forces and Peshmerga also
going to be unilaterally operating in Syria. It was an admission that we
couldn't effectively target, we didn't have the intelligence to back up the
strikes, and so our air campaign was ineffective. It is a stark admission.

And he then was intentionally vague about how this will expand, and he basically
said it's open-ended. And that is a big change because what they wanted to do so
far is say we're going to do this, it's going to work, and it's going to be
tight and restricted. It's going to be 50 people, it's going to be this and
that. They really for the first time were intentionally vague and open-ended.
And I think that is a recognition that what they've done hasn't worked and they
need to try something different and something larger.

BAIER: Also saying today that it's just the beginning of what's possible as far
as deployment. I want to play -- President Obama asked about the Russians and
specifically Vladimir Putin and what those air strikes are doing inside Syria,
if that will change.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

OBAMA: Mr. Putin, I don't expect that you're going to see a 180 turn on their
strategy over the next several weeks. So I don't think we should be under any
illusions that somehow Russia starts hitting only ISIL targets. That's not
happening now. It was never happening. It's not going to be happening in the
next several weeks.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BAIER: So there.

CHARLES KRAUTHAMMER, SYNDICATED COLUMNIST: But he does say that eventually Putin
will come to his senses and understand that, as Obama has been saying, Obama
understands the Russian national interests and Putin doesn't. And when the
enlightenment arrives Putin will ultimately change his position and join us. I
mean, for a guy who doesn't understand the American national interests, that's a
remarkable statement.

But then he actually added something and said, with the memory of Afghanistan
fresh in his mind, Putin will understand he's in the quagmire. The Russians left
Afghanistan 25 years ago. The people stuck in the quagmire today are Americans
under Obama. He's been in office seven years, 76 percent of the combat deaths of
Americans in Afghanistan has occurred under Obama, and there is little doubt
that our position in Afghanistan today is weaker than it was seven years ago
when he came into office. So when he's trying to instruct Putin on national
interests and on quagmires, he's on rather thin ground.

And just one point about the testimony today. The chairman of the joint chiefs
was asked whether he considers the drivers of the oil trucks by ISIS, the ones
who export it, as combatants. And he said no, they're civilians, trying to feed
their families. And that's why we actually dropped leaflets warning the drivers
three-quarters of an hour before any strikes. This is a joke, and it comes not
from the Pentagon. It comes from the White House. This has not been a serious
air war, and all the promises that oh, yes, now we're going to get serious I
think are a joke as long as this president is commander-in-chief.

BAIER: The administration continues to say that Russia is in a quagmire and this
will eventually perpetuate this political solution in Syria. But now we get word
that Russia is increasing its force on the ground. It has added another air base
inside Syria. Do you think that this is going to force a political solution
somehow?

HAYES: No. I don't. And we've seen the president project his views on to
Vladimir Putin now going on several years. He certainly did it with respect to
Ukraine. I think that's what's happening here.

But if you look at what the president said there about Putin, it's remarkable
that he wasn't bolder in his criticism of criticism. It's not just Vladimir
Putin and Russia aren't going to change their strategy to bring it in line with
U.S. interests. It's that they've been bombing U.S.- backed groups in Syria. You
would think that might occasion some outrage on the president of the United
States.

BAIER: Even after --

HAYES: He's in such a box, the president is in such a box that he can't do this.
And I think where this is all heading is likely U.S. cooperation with Russia. I
believe that that's happening tactically on the ground right now to a much
greater extent than people in Washington understand. I expect that we'll see
them give up the pretense and basically own it in the next several weeks.

BAIER: Even after a Russian airliner was brought down allegedly by ISIS. I want
to play this sound bite. This is Hillary Clinton this morning on CBS about
troops in Syria.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HILLARY CLINTON, (D) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I agree with the president's point
that we're not putting American combat troops back into Syria or Iraq. We are
not going to do that. This --

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Under no circumstances would you not do that?

CLINTON: Well, at this point I cannot conceive of any circumstances where I
would agree to do that. We don't know how many special forces might be needed,
how many trainers and surveillance and enablers might be need. But in terms of
thousands of combat troops like some on the Republican side are recommending, I
think that should be a nonstarter.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BAIER: It may be good politics, A.B., but it's an interesting decision in the
time of uncertainty.

STODDARD: For Hillary Clinton with her entire record, it really is startling to
hear her say so close after the attacks in Paris, which could easily have
happened here and are anticipated some form of an attack like that would happen
here sooner rather than later, for her to say that she can't conceive -- later
on she said thousands like the Republicans are talking about. But she said she
couldn't conceive of a situation where we put ground troops there. But we are.
That's what we're doing right now. We're starting and then expanding a ground
presence because we realize that the air campaign is ineffective.

KRAUTHAMMER: That was a carefully constructed answer with Clintonian language,
which will leave her, if she is the president, to actually act if she needs to.
And I think she's the kind of person who is not that ideologically committed the
way Obama is and the way Sanders is. I think she's a lot more flexible. But she
says whatever she needs to say politically, and that's what she's doing.

BAIER: Next up, Republicans going after each other in the presidential race. The
countdown to Iowa is on.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. TED CRUZ, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I have never met anybody, any
conservative who wants to ban contraceptives. As I noted, Heidi and I, we have
two little girls. I'm very glad we don't have 17.

(LAUGHTER)

CRUZ: When I was in college, we had a machine in the bathroom, you put 50 cents
in and voila.

(APPLAUSE)

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BAIER: Ted Cruz with an interesting pushback against the war on women that is
alleged against Republicans. He is making a run in Iowa and he is doing it,
getting a lot of faith based support. This is the Iowa caucus, the Quinnipiac
poll just out this week. And there you see Trump again on top but essentially
tied with Ted Cruz. You look internally in this poll, and this is support
consider themselves born again evangelical Christians, 27 percent for Cruz. And
there you see Carson second and Trump in third. We're back with the panel. We
are, Charles, 62 days from the first voting.

KRAUTHAMMER: And that Carson, that graphic you showed is almost a major reversal
among evangelicals between the position of Cruz and Carson. It is clear that
Carson has slid dramatically and that it has largely gone to Cruz. Is he is the
inheritor. I don't see any reason why the Carson slide will not continue, and
what we're getting now is the fight within Cruz and Rubio over essentially who
is going to be -- who is going to urine the title fight against the leader,
which is Trump.

They are starting to fight a little early among themselves, but they obviously
see the winner of this under card, Cruz versus Rubio, as the guy who will get to
go into the finals. Rubio, I think, has benefited over the last few months from
the decline of Bush support. A lot of it has gone to him. And also the fact that
the mainstream -- I don't like to use establishment, but the more mainstream
Republicans who have given up on Bush are seeing Rubio as the one who is the
most likely to win against Hillary.

BAIER: This battle, A.B., between Rubio and Cruz on national security is
significant. It started out with the NSA, Rubio attacking Cruz on a vote about
the National Security Agency. And then you had this "Bloomberg" article,
"Senator Rubio emphatically supported Hillary Clinton, says Cruz, in toppling
Gadhafi in Libya. I think that made no sense," Cruz told "Bloomberg." On Syria,
he said against Rubio and Clinton, "In my view we have no dog in the fight of
the Syrian civil war, he said, arguing that Rubio and Clinton are repeating the
very same mistakes they made in Libya. They have demonstrated they have learned
nothing." Interesting tying Rubio with Clinton.

STODDARD: Yes. And so the gloves are off. This is a window of time where they
worry that the voters are going to defocus off of the race and on to Christmas.
And there is -- you know volatility with Carson's numbers slipping, Cruz's rise,
Rubio's rise, and you see Christie attacking Trump, Christie attacking the
senators Cruz and Rubio. You see Rubio and Cruz in this fight, not only on
national security where Rubio is going to paint him as a Rand Paul dove because
he said we have no stake in this fight in Syria. Basically we would be fine with
Gadhafi, and the same in Egypt, that, you know, the push by people like Clinton
led us to the Muslim Brotherhood. So that is something that Rubio going to take
advantage of.

The other thing is Ted Cruz is going to be under enormous pressure on
immigration. Rubio has been leading that. He cannot come up with an answer, and
this is now on tape, and it's been on the Hugh Hewitt Shows, he can't come up
with an answer what is amnesty. Essentially his position is very similar to the
other people in the race including Rubio. And so this will be a huge thing in
the next couple weeks.

HAYES: Cruz would like to position himself between Rubio on the one hand and
Rand Paul on the other hand. But I think, particularly in this "Bloomberg"
article, he makes an argument lumping Rubio in with Clinton and Obama that I
think is a stretch, a lot of people are going to think is a stretch.

And at one point Cruz said, well, you know, Rubio is basically in favor of the
kind of military adventurism that we have seen so much of from the Obama
administration. I don't think that's the main conservative critique of the Obama
administration. The main critique is we haven't projected American power. We
certainly haven't used it. I'd say Libya, maybe Syria are exceptions to that,
but that's a risky argument for Cruz to make. He's going to have to make it in a
more nuanced way going forward.

BAIER: And 62 days. That's it for the panel. But stay tuned to see how one
presidential candidate is getting into the holiday spirit on the trail.

BAIER: Finally tonight, Republican presidential candidate billionaire Donald
Trump of course has a few signature lines, but there is one word he appears to
be saying a lot on the campaign trail this season. And one late night show
insists it's an homage to the 50th anniversary of the Charlie Brown Christmas.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DONALD TRUMP, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: What you're talking about is a lot,
but it's peanuts for me.

The cost of the wall is peanuts.

We're talking about peanuts.

That's going to be peanuts.

Peanuts.

That's peanuts, peanuts.

That's peanuts. That's peanuts.

Peanuts, peanuts, peanuts.

Peanuts. Peanuts.

Peanuts.

Glorified billion is peanuts. It's peanuts.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BAIER: Maybe so. Secret message, maybe. Charlie Brown Christmas. Thanks for
inviting us into your home tonight. That's it for this SPECIAL REPORT, fair,
balanced, and unafraid. Good to be back in the chair. Greta goes ON THE RECORD
right now.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120101cb.254

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            December 1, 2015 Tuesday

          SHOW: FOX ON THE RECORD WITH GRETA VAN SUSTEREN 7:00 PM EST

Joint Chiefs Chairman Says ISIS Not Contained; Explosion Rocks Subway Station in
Turkey; 2 Senators Blast Federal Authorities; Iraqis Prepare to Take Back Ramadi
from ISIS

BYLINE: Greta Van Susteren, Laura Wells, Kevin Ozebek, Conor Powell

GUESTS: Martha McSally, Matt Viser, Aaron Blake, John Cornyn, Oliver North,
Chrys Kefalas

SECTION: NEWS; International

LENGTH: 7730  words


[19:00:05] GRETA VAN SUSTEREN, FOX NEWS HOST: Tonight, ON THE RECORD, well, at
least General Joseph Dunford will admit it. ISIS is not contained. Now the
chairman of the Joint Chief of Staffs making this admission. Today while
testifying on Capitol Hill, and the general statement that was in direct
conflict with what President Obama insisted just one day before the Paris terror
attacks. President Obama said ISIS is contained. So which is it?

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: From the start, our goal has been
first to contain and we have contained them.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We currently contained ISIL.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We have not contained ISIL.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: ISIS is gaining strength, aren't they?

OBAMA: I don't think they are gaining strength.

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We have a president that thinks that
ISIS has been contained.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He keeps asserting well they are contained. No, they're not.

CARLY FIORINA (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: ISIS is not a JV team, Mr. President.
They are not contained.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He hasn't contained anything.

FIORINA: They are at our shores and they measure their victory in body counts.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Strategically they have spread.

OBAMA: We have contained them.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

VAN SUSTEREN: And today Secretary of Defense Ash Carter saying 200 U.S. Special
Operations Forces are being sent to Iraq to target ISIS. Right now Arizona
congresswoman and the first female fighter pilot to fly in combat, Congressman
Martha McSally goes ON THE RECORD.

Nice to see you.

MARTHA MCSALLY (R), ARIZONA CONGRESSWOMAN: Good to see you, Greta.

VAN SUSTEREN: If it weren't so serious, it's rather disturbing that the
president said ISIS is contained as the joint chief of staff says it's not
contained. It's like who is on first. What is the problem here? I mean, doesn't
everybody know?

MCSALLY: Well, yes, they are not contained. And General Dunford has asked to
give his best military advice when he is testifying before Congress. So I'm glad
that he actually admitted that.

That hearing went on for several hours and even though there is some increased
deployments, there is still more of the same gradualism and incrementalism. This
threat has been growing and metastasizing since they declared the caliphate 17
months ago.

VAN SUSTEREN: But that's what's so disturbing. I mean, the president is
commander-in-chief and we have some maps that we can put up on here to show him
if he would just look at our maps to see where we have isolated ISIS. You could
tell that look -- here's November 2015. That's the ISIL. Look at that map right
there. That's where ISIS is. Now let's go back. Look at that, that's February
2015. I mean, how in the world is our commander-in-chief thinking that it's
contained?

MCSALLY: And not only that, but they have got influence and up to 19 different
countries. They have a very sophisticated social media campaign. We have what we
know about is 30,000 foreign fighters from 100 different countries that are
flowing into Iraq and Syria. We have 900 investigations in all 50 states in
America.

Libya is now becoming another safe haven and exporting their terror. What we saw
on the Sinai. This is more metastasizing, which also they admitted today that
this is growing and metastasizing. And this administration has not seriously had
a strategy to defeat and destroy them.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right, look at side by side. President Obama just take 30
seconds to turn on "Fox News," he would know this is not contained. When he
looks at February until just now.

All right, well, today the big news is that we are going to put special ops on
the ground. But here is the thing that I thought was interesting is, and this is
where the general is probably in conflict again with the president because
General Dunford said that we are going to go where the enemy is. Meaning, they
are going to ignore borders. So everyone can talk about dropping these troops,
these special ops in Iraq. They are going into Syria.

MCSALLY: Well, they use them carefully worded phrasing to say that they would be
positioned to be able to conduct unilateral operations in Syria. Again, this is
just a small increase.

VAN SUSTEREN: He said we are going to ignore borders. We are going to where the
enemy is.

MCSALLY: Exactly. And we have been calling. I've been calling for special
operation troops, for unleashing air power, for doing more to defeat and destroy
their command, their logistics capability. This appears to be a shift, but I'm
concerned that it's more incrementalism.

They also admitted today that they considered the truck drivers of the oil
trucks that we finally started bombing to be non-combatants. I just can't
believe that. We drop leaflets telling them to get away from their trucks before
we actually hit them.

VAN SUSTEREN: You know, you say that it's a shift, but you know, I actually
think that the military has been pulling its hair out, trying to get the
president to, you know, open up his eyes because even former head of Defense
Intel, Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn, over on CNN with Jake Tapper, he told Jake Tapper
that leading up to the 2012 election, the president's advisors ignored
intelligence predicting the rise of ISIS because it didn't meet their elective
narrative and he called them JV. Of course, we know in January of 2014.

MCSALLY: Right.

VAN SUSTEREN: What is going on with this president?

MCSALLY: It seems like this president campaigned on wanting to get out of the
Middle East. He has been their reluctant commander-in-chief wanting to shift to
Asia. Ignore this threat. Been very myopically, also focused on the nuclear deal
with Iran, which is related to this because our Sunni, Arab partners in the
region are more concerned about Iran, which is a militant Islam great state
sponsor of terror and they are refusing to take action against ISIS.

VAN SUSTEREN: But he's almost got a viewpoint of one. If he's got the military
people and if he's got the general now saying publicly something directly
contradicting, which is actually a big deal. I mean, he has a viewpoint of one.

MCSALLY: I agree. He is detached. He is listening to the wrong people. His tone
has been off. His understanding of the facts have been off. The American people
are now deeply concerned about this threat and their impact on the homeland. And
President Obama continues to think the largest enemy he has is the G.O.P.

So I'm glad to see that his military advisors are finally speaking some of the
truth. But I'm still concern for the testimony today. It's more of the same sort
of reluctance. The more of the same, maybe we're going to do a little bit more.
And we learned in Vietnam that gradualism does not work. We need to look at them
as a state. We need to identify their centers of gravity. Their critical
capabilities and we would unleash American air power in a way that they have
been reluctant to do in order to destroy them where they are.

[19:05:35] VAN SUSTEREN: Congresswoman, thank you. And as always, thank you for
your service as I always say to you. Nice to see you.

MCSALLY: Absolutely. Good to see you.

VAN SUSTEREN: And I want to know what you viewers think at home. President Obama
says ISIS is contained. Is he right or is he wrong?

Tweet right or tweet wrong using #Greta and we will show you your live Twitter
votes throughout the show.

And developing now, Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton taking a page out
of President Obama's playbook. Secretary Clinton announcing she is opposed to
sending U.S. combat troops to fight ISIS.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HILLARY CLINTON (D), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I agree with the president's point
that we're not putting American combat troops back in to Syria or Iraq. We are
not going to do that. In terms of thousands of combat troops like some on the
Republican side are recommending. I think that should be a non-starter. And it
should be a non-starter both because I don't think it's a smartest way to go
after ISIS. I think it gives ISIS a new recruitment tool if we get back in the
fight.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAN SUSTEREN: The ON THE RECORD political panel is here. From the "Boston
Globe," Matt Viser and from the "Washington Post," Aaron Blake.

Matt, first to you, Secretary Clinton says that she doesn't want combat troops
on the ground. That's her position. She is obviously not the president. Are we
fooling ourselves? And we got these 200 special ops on the ground. Are they
going there? I mean, aren't they going there to fight?

MATT VISER, BOSTON GLOBE: I mean, there are special operations troops there
already and heading -- more heading there. I do think the difference that
Hillary Clinton would try to draw is ground troops is a different order of
magnitude. There would be larger groups of them. They would be fighting directly
rather than providing more of a supportive role.

So that's the difference that she is trying to draw in where see she is kind of
aligning herself with the president. She hasn't done that in the past. She has
been more hawkish. She supported no-fly zone and things like that.

VAN SUSTEREN: And in all fairness to her, she has been out of office for four
years so she doesn't have the Intel as no candidate for president has the Intel
that the president has.

Of course the president though is, as I said, has a viewpoint of one apparently,
if his generals say something different.

AARON BLAKE, WASHINGTON POST: And, look, Hillary Clinton is playing the same
semantics game that the White House has been playing with this announcement.
There were a number of instances where Obama or top officials, foreign policy
officials in the White House said that there would not be ground troops in Iraq
and Syria.

Later on, it became no combat ground troops and that's the line that they are
going with in this particular case. So, you know, it's a nice thing to say there
will be no combat ground troops, but if there is anything that this last few
years has shown us is that it's hard to make any kind of guarantees in these
circumstances and certainly Hillary Clinton left herself some wiggle room in
case that were ever to come to pass.

VAN SUSTEREN: I think it's fair to sort of hit the president over the head with
the fact that he sort of slow to see what his generals are seeing. I think
that's fair. But I think on the other hand, he said we sort of have to make it
safe for our politicians to change their views based on changed circumstances,
you know. So that they, you know, they don't sort of get into a situation where
they just want to be right.

VISER: The other interesting thing I think to point out with Hillary Clinton is
that she was arguing as secretary of state more forcefully for arming Syrian
rebels.

(CROSSTALK)

VAN SUSTEREN: And Libya. And with Libya as well, she was --

VISER: So she comes at this from a different perspective than the president and
she advised him differently than the advice he did not take her advice.

VAN SUSTEREN: How important is this? Does it mean this could be the issue in
2016?

BLAKE: You know, I would say right now it looks more and more -- it's a year
out, obviously. But certainly this issue has shown no signs of abating. It's
only become more of an issue now of course with the Paris attacks.

You know, if indeed ISIS is planning to strike elsewhere. Worldwide, it's only
going to become a bigger issue. Obviously, we hope that doesn't happen. But
certainly this is an issue that, I think a few months ago we didn't think was
going to be a real big deal in the 2016 campaign. The candidates just cannot
ignore it right now.

VAN SUSTEREN: And, of course, something happen huge in our economy that then
becomes the issue because we are rather fickle that way.

Anyway, Matt and Aaron, stick around.

This is a "Fox News" alert.

A huge explosion caught on camera. The explosion ripping through an overpass
near a metro station in Istanbul, Turkey. Local officials say yes, it was a
bomb.

GRN reporter Laura Wells is live in Istanbul.

Laura, what's the latest?

LAURA WELLS, GRN REPORTER: Well, this happened during rush hour at 5:15 Local
Time. The Istanbul governor has said that he is very lucky there was no loss of
life. He said that one person had been injured. This contradicted earlier
reports from the mayor of the district who said that 6 people had been injured.

There has been no claim of responsibility. Although Turkey has been suffering
from public bombing since early June, which has claimed the lives of 140 people.
This includes the deadliest terrorist attack in Turkey's history in the capital
on October 10th.

The difference here is that it didn't target a group. The other bombings
targeted leftist and Kurds. This was just in a public area in downtown Istanbul.

VAN SUSTEREN: Laura, it's no secret that Turkey has been involved in air strikes
in Syria. Is this sort of the working theory, people suspicious tonight that it
is ISIS?

WELLS: That's certainly a consideration and ISIS has retaliated on Turkish soil.
There is also the thought that it could be a PKK attack because of course that's
ongoing conflict on Turkish soil between the military and the Kurdish separatist
militia, the PKK, which has claimed over 2,000 lives since July. So we just
don't know at this time.

VAN SUSTEREN: No doubt security has been heightened in that city.

WELLS: Absolutely. You see police everywhere. It's really something. I mean,
Turks are both terrified at what's going on. But they are also desensitized
because there is not a day that goes by that you don't hear of some sort of
strife or a death in the headlines. So it's just continuing.

And Turkey is fighting on all fronts. And, of course, the tensions with Russia
are also escalating. And Russia has intensified its air strikes on both Turkish
support for rebels there as well as the Turkish supported rebels in northern
Syria.

VAN SUSTEREN: Laura, thank you.

WELLS: Thank you. And the international manhunt still underway for those
fugitive suspects in the Paris terror massacre. And, today, another huge
development. A trial now underway for the French ISIS leader believed to be the
key planner behind the attack.

Feature story news correspondent Kevin Ozebek is live in Brussels.

Kevin, what's the latest?

KEVIN OZEBEK, FEATURE NEWS STORY CORRESPONDENT: Well, Greta, the man on trial is
Salim Benghalem. He and six others are accused of running this ISIS recruiting
network that was totally aimed at enticing French nationals to move down to
Raqqa and in other parts of Syria to fight alongside ISIS.

Now Benghalem is actually being tried in Absentia. He is not in Paris. He is not
in custody, rather it is believed he is still in Raqqa, Syria, which is the de
facto capital of ISIS.

Now what's very interesting, Greta, is in the past few days, some French media
outlets have began to report that it's possible that Benghalem really is the
true mastermind of the November 13th attacks. We're all familiar now with the
name Abdelhamid Abaaoud.

He was at first labelled the mastermind, but now some journalist in Paris are
citing sources. And these sources are saying that it's very possible that
Benghalem was actually coordinating the attack and delivering orders from Raqqa.

Greta, Benghalem is also a wanted man by the U.S. He is on the U.S. most wanted
list of terrorists. And that is because Washington believes he did hold some
responsibility in holding westerners hostage in Syria and also possibly may have
even been behind the executions of some of them.

VAN SUSTEREN: Kevin, every night I ask you about the ongoing manhunt. And so far
there hasn't been much -- and there has been absolutely no information in the
past several nights. Have they reached a dead end on this manhunt? Are they sort
of having the sense that he has gotten away?

OZEBEK: Well, that's a very good question, Greta, because Salah Abdeslam has now
been on the run for 18 days. So for 18 days now here in Brussels, the search has
been on for this man, but still no sign of him. We did reach out to Belgium
authorities both yesterday and today and, Greta, so far we have not heard back
from them.

Now, of course, when it comes to exactly what Belgium intelligence officers
know, they're not going to release everything when it comes to this
investigation and manhunt. But, in the past few days, Greta, we have heard no
updates when it comes to the search for him. But we do know police raids still
continue here in Brussels and throughout this country.

VAN SUSTEREN: Kevin, thank you.

News is extremely is disturbing. Two United States senators claiming that
federal officials placed young unaccompanied immigrants, that means children, in
the homes of convicted criminals. And some of those criminals sex traffickers
and human smugglers.

One of those senators, Texas Senator John Cornyn goes ON THE RECORD from the
capitol.

Good evening, sir.

SEN. JOHN CORNYN (R), TEXAS: Hi, Greta, good to be with you.

VAN SUSTEREN: Nice to have you. So tell me, sir, what is it that you have found
out about these kids who were streaming across our southern border into the
United States. Where are they?

CORNYN: Well, as you know, there was a huge humanitarian crisis in 2014 when
tens of thousands of these children came across, some with their parents, some
unaccompanied because they realized that there were no detention facilities
available to hold them so they would then be placed with sponsors here in the
United States. Many of whom were not citizens. Many of whom were not relatives.

But what we point out is that many of them have not been vetted properly for
criminal background checks and indeed one whistle blower has reported roughly 10
percent of a tested sample showed that these sponsors were in fact did have
criminal records.

This is a threat and to the children because many of them will continue to be
exploited here in the United States by criminal organizations.

[19:15:25] All right. Now, it couldn't be more unthinkable. And I saw the report
of some boys being trafficked. Teen boys in the State of Ohio, labor
exploitation.

I mean, somebody is responsible for this. Someone is letting this happen to
these children. Who is it?

CORNYN: Well it's the Department of Homeland Security and Health and Human
Services in this administration that refuse to work with us to provide a speedy
access to a court so that these children can have their immigration status
adjudicated before a judge based on the facts of their individual case.

Instead, they thought the humane thing to do was to let them continue to flood
in the United States and place them with these sponsors. But what we find out is
that they put them in increased jeopardy.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right. Do we know where these children are? I mean, are they
sponsors accounted for? Are they monitored? Is there any effort to police them?

CORNYN: Well, that's part of what Senator Grassley, the chairman of the Senate
Judiciary Committee and I have asked for is in essence an audit. But I really
doubt that we're going to be able to find some of these kids because I think
many of them will be placed with a sponsor, will have since moved on, and, as
you know, these criminal organizations that basically run the human smuggling
and human trafficking operations between here and Mexico and Central America,
their tentacles spread into the United States. So there is no telling what's
happened to some of these kids.

VAN SUSTEREN: Well, you know, I mean, look, there is so much human trafficking
in the world and a lot of people won't admit that we have it here in the United
States. Now we have children that come across our border and if this whistle
blower is correct, I mean, put them in the hands of smugglers, human
traffickers, felons, sex offenders. I can't think of anything more unthinkable.

And, I mean, someone has got to be held accountable. Heads have got to roll some
place. We can't just do this to children.

CORNYN: Well, that's why Senator Grassley and I wrote this letter and why we
tried to raise the visibility of this issue. We have seen an up tick in the
number of children coming from Central America, again. This appears to be
somewhat seasonal. But the problem is not over once they get here and I think we
have a responsibility to at least make sure that they are not exploited and that
they are safe. But, unfortunately, there don't seem to be the procedures in
place from the administration to assure us or them of that.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right. Well that neglect is absolutely cruel and inhumane. And
I'm shocked that, you know, that the HHS or anyone else wouldn't be policing
this to make sure that didn't happen.

Senator, thank you. I hope you and Senator Grassley -- I hope you bring the
Secretary of HHS up to the hill and ask questions.

CORNYN: Absolutely. Thanks, Greta.

VAN SUSTEREN: Thank you, sir.

And Herman Cain on the campaign trail with Donald Trump. Cain getting all fired
up. Who did he go after? That's next.

Also, the first trial of one of the police officers charged in the death of
Freddie Gray. Getting closer to opening statements. Can he get a fair trial? The
former DOJ official is here coming up.

[19:21:43] VAN SUSTEREN: Outsider candidate turned G.O.P. frontrunner, yes,
Donald Trump now getting a little help from a former outsider candidate himself,
Herman Cain.

The 2012 presidential contender speaking at a Trump rally in Georgia.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HERMAN CAIN, 2012 G.O.P. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Many of you all know that I was
considered an outsider. And let me tell you something about my definition of an
outsider. If you were born in the United States of America, you are an insider
through and through.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAN SUSTEREN: But today Herman Cain was careful to say that he is not endorsing
Donald Trump. The ON THE RECORD political panel is back.

Matt, I thought the candidate sort of wanted to be outsiders and now Herman Cain
says that the outsiders are insiders because they were born here. I'm a little
confused.

VISER: It is interesting. And it's interesting watching Trump, you know, with
people who are, you know, introducing him. I mean, Trump is somebody whose
campaign spokeswoman barely speaks for him. I mean, Trump himself is usually the
person speaking for Trump. So it's interesting this week he is seeking
endorsements yesterday and then also had Herman Cain sort of speaking on his
behalf.

VAN SUSTEREN: Does Herman Cain help him?

VISER: I don't know that he does. I mean, Herman Cain, the other interesting
thing about this is Herman Cain had a brief blip, you know, in the 2012
campaign.

Trump we thought would be a brief blip like Herman Cain, but Trump, you know,
here, he is going on, you know, 90th day of polls.

BLAKE: It's not hard to draw a line from Donald Trump to Herman Cain. As Cain
himself acknowledged when he was on stage. You know, political outsider,
businessman comes into the race, you know, Herman Cain was leading the race
albeit for a shorter period of time to come to his personal issues which by the
way were pretty serious allegations that were involved there. So, you know, I'm
not sure this hurts somebody like Donald Trump necessarily because he is Donald
Trump. But it's certainly not somebody you would necessarily want to have on
stage if you were a regular politician.

VAN SUSTEREN: Well, the so-called establishment G.O.P. 90 days ago was just
waiting for Donald Trump to flame out, fade out. Now they seem to admit that he
is here to stay. I mean, he is still on top of the polls.

VISER: They are realizing that he is here to stay and something needs to be
done. The question is what. And you are seeing John Kasich, Super PAC going
after him with some ads. You are seeing Jeb Bush's rhetoric go up a little bit
against Trump. But, still, nothing is proven, you know, that effective.

VAN SUSTEREN: What sounds almost like the American people, I mean, at least the
G.O.P., I should say, the Republican G.O.P. still wants Trump no matter how much
these people running, you know, say things about Trump.

BLAKE: Well, look, the issue here, I don't think Donald Trump is going to win a
majority of Republican votes in any given state, but he has gotten a very --

VAN SUSTEREN: Well, neither has anybody else gotten any. He has gotten more than
anybody else.

BLAKE: You know, he is a very niche candidate. He's got a very solid base that
doesn't seem to be --

(CROSSTALK)

VAN SUSTEREN: I would rather have his niche tonight than some of the other
niches around 2 percent. I mean, that's a good niche.

(CROSSTALK)

BLAKE: Definitely. But the problem with this is you can go after him as much as
you want, but those supporters are going to stay by him. And once you get into
the primary process, you basically need to wait for these other candidates to
drop out and hope you can finally surpass him. But that's a process that needs
to play out. And there's no indication that it's not going to start until after
the states actually start voting in this process.

VISER: I think people are realizing too how long this nominating contest could
actually go. Giving Trump strength and that he has a solid base and the
proportionality, you know, of some of those states that this could be a very
long nominating contest.

VAN SUSTEREN: Well, one thing we can all agree on, it won't be dull. It will not
be dull. You know, buckle up. This will be quite a ride.

Anyway, Matt, Aaron, thank you both.

And at any moment, Iraq will kick off a major offensive to take back a key city
from ISIS. We are live in the Middle East. That's next.

[19:29:00] VAN SUSTEREN: This is a "Fox News" alert. At any moment, the Iraqi
military is set to launch a major offensive to take back the key city Ramadi
from ISIS control. The military is now warning civilians to get out before Iraqi
forces storm that city.

"Fox News" correspondent Conor Powell is live in our Middle East bureau.

Conor?

CONOR POWELL, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Greta, at this point, the city of Ramadi
is effectively surrounded by Iraqi troops while U.S.-led collision planes
continue to target ISIS positions in and around the city. But there is really
little reason to think that this is going to be a quick military option. The
battle for Ramadi has really been in the works now for months.

Last year Iraqi forces tried to launch an unsuccessful operation to retake the
predominantly Sunni town. That operation though failed pretty quickly. Once
again showing how poorly organized the Iraqi military is and was.

Now, U.S. trainers have spent most of this year trying to rebuild the Iraqi
military, trying to get it up to speed. And so far the Iraqi forces do seem to
be making some progress. They have taken a key bridge leading into the City of
Ramadi. They have also begun to cut ISIS supply lines, but make no mistake, this
is really a siege battle plan encircling the city and squeezing ISIS over a long
period of time, and that's really we're looking at U.S. officials are talking
about months, not weeks or even days for defeating ISIS in this area. Both
Germany and the United States have announced that they are going to send
additional troops to help the Iraqi military defeat ISIS. However, tonight,
Greta, the Iraqi prime minister said his country doesn't need foreign troops on
the ground there. History though says otherwise. The Iraqi troops are in
desperate need of a lot of help, not only from the United States but from a lot
of other countries. They so far have just not proved effective into fighting
ISIS on the ground. Greta.

VAN SUSTEREN: Conor, thank you. In May, when Ramadi fell to ISIS, it sent
shockwaves signaling a major loss of Iraqi forces. Why is taking Ramadi so
critical? Lieutenant Colonel Oliver North is here to go "On the Record." First,
Colonel, is it Oli? Why is Ramadi so important?

OLIVER NORTH, LIEUTENANT COLONEL U.S. MARINE CORPS: Well, it's the heartland of
all the Sunni tribes in all of Iraq. Anbar province, the largest province, the
capital of it is Ramadi, I've spent -- I add up the number of deployments I made
to Ramadi, it was over a dozen, and thus, we did there over the course of that
period of time when things were turning out right. The tribes, the awakening,
all began in Ramadi. Of course, Fallujah got a lot of news back in April and
again in November the year before in 2014 but -- in 2004. By the time 2006 got
around, they had targeted Zarqawi, who was in Ramadi, as the head of AQI,
Al-Qaeda in Iraq, and the tribes had joined the American side. The tribes have
now been dissipated. And what's being played out -- and Connor had it absolutely
right. What's being played out is Iran's plan for the Euphrates River Valley.
Euphrates River Valley is key to supplying Hezbollah inside Syria, and of
course, Lebanon and that land route goes from the Iranian border through Baghdad
all the way up to the Euphrates River Valley. And without Ramadi, they can't
supplies by land to Hezbollah. So this is Tehran's plan.

(CROSSTALK)

VAN SUSTEREN: So, why does the Iraqi foreign minister -- Iraqi foreign minister
says he needs no help from -- he doesn't need any help?

NORTH: Because the Baghdad government is a wholly own subsidiary of the Tehran
ayatollahs and that's whose plan is being played out here.

VAN SUSTEREN: Can Iraq with the help of Iran or whoever -- can they take back
Ramadi?

NORTH: I went through the intelligence today and I looked at it. There are 13
Iranian supported militia groups in Anbar province and it's west of Baghdad. You
would expect from them to be in Baghdad because that's, of course, the side of
militia's home. It's where they're also starting recruited so many of them. But
they're west up the upper Euphrates River Valley, west of there, and they are
going to be actively engaged in this. It will be a blood bath of biblical
proportions if those militias -- those Shiite militias, supported by Iran, go
into Ramadi.

(CROSSTALK)

VAN SUSTEREN: Well, they are -- apparently, that's the expectation. But to say
Iraqi forces that I assume with those militias, right?

NORTH: Of course. And that's why this thing is going to be a disaster. What they
should have done is, listen, you had as a guest on your show Mudhar Shawkat, who
sat right here and said, "I, Mudhar Shakwat, with national salvation front, can
put together a Sunni opposition to ISIS," and he was ignored all over
Washington.

VAN SUSTEREN: He came here. He came here asking for help.

NORTH: He did, indeed. In fact .

VAN SUSTEREN: Not to the set but to Capitol Hill.

(CROSSTALK)

NORTH: . met with him over there, Congressman Steve King met with him, while I
was there just a few weeks ago. If the administration would like to know how bad
things are, they could take the footage we shot over there, and you can see it.
Ash Carter said today that we're going to send Special Operations Forces to Iraq
with the support of the Iraqi government to help Peshmerga. I'll will believe it
when I see it.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right. What do you make of the joint chief of staffs chairman
saying that ISIS is not contained in -- which is directly contradicts with the
commander in chief, President Obama, a day before in Paris?

NORTH: I can recall when he being asked for confirmation hearings, fighting Joe
Dunford said, "I will speak truth to power," and he is doing just exactly that.

(CROSSTALK)

VAN SUSTEREN: Why is he doing -- is he doing it quietly before doing it
publicly?

NORTH: He was asked the question. He was asked the question today, are they
contained, and the answer is no, they are not contained.

VAN SUSTEREN: There are the two maps (ph), February 2015 to November, the
president says it's contained. And just look at the map. I mean just look at the
red marks. You can see it spreading.

(CROSSTALK)

North: It's not just in Syria and Iraq. You now have ISIS in scants (ph) in
Libya. You have them in the Sinai. You have them in Yemen. Have you them in
Nigeria.

VAN SUSTEREN: You have them in Paris?

NORTH: Well, in other words, it's certainly not contained. And the idea that
they have somehow been rocked back in their fields is just as phony as Kerry
saying that Ramadi is a set back and it will be reversed (ph) in a matter of
days. Here we are six months after he said it. We're about to see -- if it
actually takes place -- a battle that is going to create enormous civilian
casualties because that's the way the Iranians fight and it's going to be
devastating.

VAN SUSTEREN: Colonel, nice to see you, sir.

NORTH: Good to be with you, Greta.

VAN SUSTEREN: And the video of a Chicago cop shooting and killing a black teen
causing a major shakeup tonight, we're live in Chicago straight ahead. Plus a
mystery, a mayor, found dead inside his home and right now police have no idea
what caused this mysterious death, but there are clues. That's coming up.

VAN SUSTEREN: Breaking right now. Chicago's top cop fired. Gary McCarthy's
firing coming in response to enormous public backlash over the video showing
fatal shooting 16 times by a black teenager by a white cop. Fox News
correspondent, Mike Tobin, is live in Chicago. Mike?

MIKE TOBIN, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: And late breaking, Greta, Illinois Attorney
General Lisa Madigan has reached out to U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch
requesting a federal investigation into the patterns and practices of Chicago
police. She highlighted what she called unlawful and excessive use of force and
the lack of accountability. All of this coming on a day when Mayor Rahm Emanuel
demanded and received the resignation of his hand-picked police superintendent,
Gary McCarthy. That came in the wake of public demonstrations and cries of a
cover up. Emanuel would not give a specific reason for McCarthy's firing, only
that instead of handling issues McCarthy had had become an issue. He was a
distraction. All of that follows last week's court order release of dash cam
video showing Officer Jason Van Dyke unloading an entire clip into 17-year-old
Laquan McDonald. Most of the shots were fired while McDonald was already on the
ground. That prompted those angry demonstrations from people furious at the
superintendent, states attorney, and mayor knew about the tape for more than a
year before Van Dyke was charged. One of the things Emanuel said today is that a
police officer, meaning McCarthy, is only as effective as when he has the trust
of the people he serves. Well, now you have minority leaders, the angry mob
demonstrating on the street and major newspaper op- eds insisting that Emanuel
no longer has the trust of the people he serves. Greta?

VAN SUSTEREN: Mike, thank you. And today is day two of jury selection highly
anticipated trial for the first of six Baltimore police officers charged in the
death of Freddie Gray. Opening statements could begin tomorrow. Yesterday "On
the Record" reported the jurors inside the courtroom could hear protesters
outside the courtroom chanting. So can Officer William Porter and the other five
officers get a fair trial? Former DOJ official and former deputy legal counsel
for Maryland's governor, Chrys Kefalas, goes "On the Record." Chrys has been
here before. But before we get to Baltimore, you have an announcement to make.

CHRYS KEFALAS, RUNNING FOR U.S. SENATE FOR MARYLAND: I do. You know, Marylanders
have needed a different direction for a long time, 30 years of failures they
have dealt with. It's time now to restore the American dream, a dream that
inspired my grandparents to come to the United States, settle in Baltimore and
raise a family. And so, to restore that dream, to restore the middle class, I'm
going to run for the United States Senate to represent the people of Maryland
who deserve more jobs, fewer funerals.

VAN SUSTEREN: And I should say as a Republican?

KEFALAS: Yes.

VAN SUSTEREN: And you are going to run as openly gay candidate?

KEFALAS: Yeah. No one talks about that on the campaign trail. They talk about
jobs, how are you going to support the middle class, what are you going to do to
improve national security in America. Those are the issues they care about and
that's what I'm running on.

VAN SUSTEREN: Governor Hogan is a Republican new governor. Has he indicated at
all -- I realize it's early. Are you likely to get his support because in
Democratic state I imagine that's important?

KEFALAS: Well, when we win the Republican nomination, I intend to run on
obviously his success. He is a good friend. We go back to the Ehrlich years. He
and I served Governor Ehrlich, he in personnel, I on legal issues. He proved
that Republican in Maryland can win and be successful.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right. We'll be watching your race. All right. Now, turning to
the state of Maryland, Baltimore. Do you think these police officers -- you have
got jury selection going on and you -- and I don't know why the judge let this
happened. They moved to another court, but they actually hear it outside.
According to Griff Jenkins, our reporter, they could hear the protesters outside
as they are trying to pick a jury..

KEFALAS: We know there are challenges. Baltimore City is a tough place to
prosecute. But the judge in this case is the judge we appointed during the
Erhlich years is very -- he was always fair minded, always a guy who ...

VAN SUSTEREN: Was he -- was he a justice lawyer? He used to prosecute police in
the justice department?

KEFALAS: He was a justice, but he also was a prosecutor in Baltimore City. So he
has a good -- pretty good amount of experience that he brings. He's always had a
reputation of being fair, impartial, someone who could look at the fair case and
make an assessment. But you know, he has left open the possibility that he could
potentially move this case out of Baltimore, but I think, you know, the
situation with Freddie Gray trial, the situation we're dealing with in Chicago,
underscores greater problems that we have, you know, the lack of jobs and
opportunity in Baltimore, the lack of efficiency and effectiveness in the war on
drugs.

VAN SUSTEREN: How did -- how did that happen? You know, people have been going
after the police and how they handled the protests and riots in April. But the
fact is that a lot of the city government has gotten a lot of money to try to
fix these problems for the citizens and they didn't fix it. And then, of course,
everyone -- all hell breaks loose like it did, and now, everyone blames the cops
for the riots, and of course, the people are looting, but what about the mope
that was given to the politicians, the city council to fix things?

KEFALAS: I mean they're big failures.

VAN SUSTEREN: Some (ph). I mean a lot of.

(CROSSTALK)

KEFALAS: My point is those (ph) aren't just in Baltimore city and aren't by
local municipal officials. It's also in Washington. The war on drugs has
resulted in the situation, as you know, Greta, where, you know, we have crime
and it is creating issues that have resulted where a law enforcement official
and the community are separated. There isn't work -- you know, any relationship
working together. I mean these are problems that have to be addressed and they
can only be addressed in Washington by, you know, focusing on the war on drugs,
ending it and decriminalizing some -- in many cases decriminalizing a lot of
drugs.

VAN SUSTEREN: Well, I think if you follow the money in some of these local
governments to see, you know, they make promises that they're going to help the
people in the community and they get millions of dollars in federal money and it
doesn't happen. There's obviously a situation -- something is not right, anyway
.

KEFALAS: That's why we need a better direction and a different direction and I
hope folks search through (ph) maryland.com to find our more.

(CROSSTALK)

VAN SUSTEREN: All right. Chrys nice to see you and we will be watching.

KEFALAS: OK. Thanks, Greta.

VAN SUSTEREN: And this is very strange. A newly elected mayor found dead inside
his home. Now, there are some clues. A live report is coming up.

VAN SUSTEREN: Get ready to speed read the news. Three people are lucky to be
alive after a small plane crashed just moments after takeoff, the small
single-engine plane going down next to a canal in Miami. The three passengers
were taken to local hospitals, but all are expected to be OK. Now, the fourth
passenger, a dog named Sugar, he also OK. The 11-year- old golden mixed breed
was taken away from the crash scene on a stretcher and taken to a local vet with
just a small injury to her paws.

And it's a real life Hollywood mystery, LAPD are desperately searching for a
Hollywood producer who has been missing since before Thanksgiving. 27-year-old
Eric Kohler was last seen leaving his office in L.A. Kohler specializes in
visual effects and has worked on movies like Pirates of the Caribbean and The
Avengers.

And an active volcano in Mexico erupting four times in just one day. Since July,
the volcano has been spitting out ash and smoke into the sky, this Web cam
capturing all the action. Authorities are warning people to stay away but have
not ordered any evacuations. And that's tonight's speed read.

And breaking right now, mystery is swirling around the death of an Alaska mayor.
Alaska Juneau mayor Greg Fisk found dead inside his home and tonight, research
(ph) scrambling sorting through clues. Juneau Empire report, Sam DeGrave. Sam,
what's the latest?

SAM DEGRAVE, JUNEAU EMPIRE CITY REPORTER: Hi, Greta. Juneau's chief of police
confirmed this morning that police did find some injuries on Fisk's body
yesterday when they went into his home and found him. There are still several
questions that remain unanswered. However, we don't know how Fisk sustained
these injuries at this point and we probably won't until tomorrow morning after
an autopsy is conducted on Fisk's body, which was sent to Anchorage where the
state medical examiner's office is. We don't have any medical examiner's office
in Juneau and Anchorage is about 600- mile flight from here, so that's the delay
there.

VAN SUSTEREN: Was there any indication of forced entry and did he have any
health problems?

DEGRAVE: There was not. A neighbor recalled -- there was no signed of forced
entry. A neighbor recalled he had a heart attack 20 years ago now. Fisk is 70.
Another neighbor recalled some history of stroke. But the police at this point
have only able to rule out suicide as an option.

VAN SUSTEREN: Does he live alone and who discovered him?

DEGRAVE: Fisk does live alone and his son discovered his body yesterday
afternoon after he tried to call him and Fisk did not answer. So he went to his
house and that's when he discovered him at about 3:30 p.m.

VAN SUSTEREN: Anything unusual about the election? He was just elected mayor
about four or five weeks ago, beating an incumbent.

DEGRAVE: Yes. He beat the incumbent here by two to one margin, but there wasn't
much unusual. Fisk is a well-liked guy, very well respected in the community,
even respected by our incumbent mayor whom he beat fairly handedly. Fisk was
sworn in on October 20th and everything had been in order up until yesterday.

VAN SUSTEREN: Any neighborhood had any problems like breaking and entering,
anything weird about the neighborhood?

DEGRAVE: No. Fisk lived in the Star Hill neighborhood in downtown Juneau which
is for all intents and purposes a very safe neighborhood. Juneau doesn't have a
huge history of violent crime. So, it was, I think, a shock to us all.

VAN SUSTEREN: We will find out more tomorrow. Sam, thank you.

DEGRAVE: You're welcome.

VAN SUSTEREN: And a brand new GretaTalk podcast set for release tomorrow. I sat
down with Wisconsin basketball coach, the amazing Bo Ryan. What does he think
about college athletes getting paid? And what 5'3" inch basketball player did we
talk about? Don't miss on GretaTalk. Subscribe for free on iTunes, Tunein or
Stitcher so you won't miss any GretaTalk episode.

And coming up, uh-oh, Thailand who called me in its paper rude and crude may
have more not so nice words for me. I will tell you Off the Record. That's next.

VAN SUSTEREN: Let's all go off-the-record. I know Thailand is not a fan of mine.
Remember, the Bangkok Post called me rude and crude after I called out the Thai
government for sadistically sitting on its radar data about the missing Malaysia
Airline Flight 370. For 10 days, they hid it. That was immoral of the military
of Thailand. Well, tonight Thailand is about to get angrier with me. I'm calling
them out again. Check out what a local Thai printer did to today's edition of
the international "New York Times." Why the big white spot? Well, because the
front page story dared to report about Thailand's economy which as you might
guess is lousy. And the story makes military-ruled government look likewise
lousy. The Thai printer cut the story leaving blank white spaces not just on the
front page but also on page 6, which is part 26 the article. The Thai printing
company is not explaining why, but I was not born yesterday. In Thailand, it's
illegal, 15 years in prison to defame, insult, or threaten the royal family. No
doubt the ruling military junta does not like bad stories about itself. No
freedom of speech and freedom of press in Thailand. And my guess, after this
comment, tomorrow that space, that could once again be filled trashing me again,
not rude and crude this time, maybe a bully, a bully for freedom of speech in
the press? Bring it on. And that's my Off- the-Record comment tonight.

And you have been voting on Twitter are. President Obama said ISIS is contained.
Is he right or wrong? Here are your results; 90 percent say he is wrong; 10
percent say he is right. And check this out. This is the best social media
picture of the day. That is Facebook founder, Mark Zuckerberg, and his wife,
Priscilla, with brand new baby girl, Max. Zuckerberg announcing he wants his
daughter, Max to grow up in a better world. So he will give away 99 percent of
his Facebook shares to charity throughout his lifetime. Right now, those shares
are worth $45 billion.

Never miss my favorite social pic of the day. Set your DVR to record "On the
Record" so you never miss the best Twitted picture of the day. And if you can't
watch live, then play back "On the Record" after you finish watching your other
Fox programs, how about 11:01 each night, that would be a good time.

Thank you for being with us. We'll see you tomorrow night right here at 7:00
p.m. Eastern. And remember, go to Gretawire.com and get all the latest news and
go to my Facebook page, like it, share it. There's a lot going on behind the
scenes on "On the Record." It's all on social media. Up next, the O'Reilly
Factor. Good night from Washington.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120101cb.260

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            December 1, 2015 Tuesday

                     SHOW: THE O'REILLY FACTOR 8:00 PM EST

THE O'REILLY FACTOR for December 1, 2015

BYLINE: Bill O'Reilly, Kennedy, Greg Gutfeld, Bernard McGuirk

GUESTS: Katie Pavlich, Kimberly Guilfoyle, Lis Wiehl, Jennice Fuentes, Simon
Rosenberg, Andrea Tantaros, Leslie Marshall, Eric Shawn, Shannon Bream

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 8052  words


(MUSIC PLAYING)

BILL O'REILLY, FOX NEWS CO-HOST OF "THE O'REILLY FACTOR" PROGRAM: The O'Reilly
factor is on. Tonight:

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HILLARY CLINTON (D) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We have to finally, once and for
all, fix our immigration system. We cannot wait any longer for a path to full
and equal citizenship.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY (voice-over): A factor investigation on what the left really wants to
do about illegal immigration. This might shock you.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DONALD TRUMP, (R) FRONT-RUNNER, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: How about CNN. I will
not do the debate unless they pay me $5 million.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY (voice-over): Donald Trump threatening to pull out of the CNN debate
two weeks from tonight. He says he wants the money to be donated to vets. We
will have a special report.

Also, ahead, what is the truth about American Muslims cheering after the 9/11
attack? Our "Truth Serum" correspondents on the case.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

O'REILLY (on camera): Caution, you are about to enter the No Spin Zone. "The
Factor" begins right now.

(MUSIC PLAYING)

O'REILLY: Hi, I am Bill O'Reilly. Thanks for watching us tonight. The left's
secret immigration plan. That is the subject of this evening's talking points
memo. In order to win the presidency in 2016, both the republican and the
democratic candidate will have to get a good amount of votes from Hispanic
Americans.

On thanksgiving, the "New York Times" ran an editorial that pretty much laid out
what the liberal viewpoint is on people coming to live in America. Point number
1: The left no longer distinguishes between illegal aliens and those who come
here legally.

All foreign nationals who enter are now described by the "Times" and others as
immigrants. And, if you use the term illegal alien, you are a bigot. Point 2:
The left believes that any fence on the southern border is nativist bigotry.
That is a hateful action towards non-Americans, especially Hispanics.

Point number 3: The left wants open borders. No restrictions on knows who come
here. No detention. No physical barrier. No deportation proceedings unless the
serious crime other than illegal entry is committed. And, if you disagree with
that you are promoting an anti-immigrant police state.

Point 4: The left says all immigrants again illegal and legal should be welcomed
and assimilated. And, not only that the government should give them money to
settle in and they should immediately be eligible for all the entitlements
Americans can secure.

Point 5: All illegal aliens already here should be put on a pathway to
citizenship. The left wants full amnesty. And, finally, point number 6: The left
wants free lawyers for all immigrants, so they can gather up the entitlements
and citizenship requirements. At the end of the editorial in the "New York
Times" the paper asks is that so radical?

The answer, of course, is yes. Open borders, full amnesty, complete entitlement
access is indeed radical and dangerous to public order and safety. But, that is
the vision of the Democratic Party. Not everyone, not everyone. But you will not
hear many democrats go up against that, as the Kate's law debate demonstrated.

Now, many believe this is a pure political strategy that flooding the nation
with foreigners, many of whom will get the right to vote strengthens the
Democratic Party. But there is much more in play. The radical left, immigration
vision, would profoundly change all of America's traditions, all of them, and
that is what the left wants.

Because that ideology sees the American Judeo-Christian tradition as oppressive,
exploitative and a white privilege legacy. Thus, the Uber left wants traditional
America wiped off the face of the earth. That is what is truly going on. And, if
Americans do not wise up quickly, the left wing vision of immigration may very
well become a reality.

And, that is the memo. Now, for the top story, reaction. Joining us from
Washington, two democrats, Simon Rosenberg and Jennice Fuentes. So, Jennice, am
I making any mistakes in my analysis? Be specific, please.

JENNICE FUENTES, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: That is a very extreme right wing
analysis.

O'REILLY: OK. I am taking it right from the paper. These are the words they
wrote. I did not change any of the words.

FUENTES: I think --

O'REILLY: I just put them on the screen.

FUENTES: OK. Let us just look at history, because you chose to --

O'REILLY: Whoa! Whoa! No, no, no. I do not want to look at history, Jennice.

FUENTES: No, no.

O'REILLY: I want to look at the "New York Times" --

FUENTES: OK. No, but you used -- But, you choice to --

O'REILLY: Are you saying this is not true?

FUENTES: Yes. OK, but you used the word amnesty.

O'REILLY: What?

FUENTES: Let us start with amnesty because there is some points I did not take
-- I do not have -- you do not want me looking down so I cannot look at the
points. But, let us look at amnesty. You mentioned the word amnesty, the last
time we had amnesty was under Ronald Reagan.

O'REILLY: Yes.

FUENTES: Republican President. A great president -- republican president, right?
Amnesty back in the day, back there was you paid, you got your name down, and
you got your green card. This is what we are talking about -- Please, let us all
be clear, this is not amnesty.

O'REILLY: So, what was attached to the Reagan amnesty, Jennice?

FUENTES: Very little.

O'REILLY: No.

FUENTES: There was no background.

O'REILLY: There was a promise that this would be the last one.

FUENTES: There was no fingerprinting. There was no fine.

O'REILLY: No, no, no, no.

FUENTES: You did not have to pay a fine.

O'REILLY: No. What was attached to the amnesty under President Reagan was, this
will be the last time we will do it. We will secure the border. We are not going
to have any more of this and the government obviously let us down.

FUENTES: True, and we did not secure it -- yes.

O'REILLY: And, Mr. Rosenberg, did you see that I distorted this editorial as
Jennice seems to think that I distorted it.

(LAUGHING)

FUENTES: You did not. I did not say you distorted it.

O'REILLY: I did not distort anything. Here it is, right here.

FUENTES: You were presenting it in the right wing approach.

O'REILLY: Let Mr. Simon -- it is not a right wing anything. It is an analysis of
what is on the paper. Mr. Rosenberg?

(LAUGHING)

SIMON ROSENBERG, PRESIDENT AND FOUNDER OF NDN: Bill, first of all, what is
important to realize is that the "New York Times" has been very critical of the
Obama administration for its enforcement agenda.

O'REILLY: Yes. They think they are too tough.

ROSENBERG: They are too tough.

O'REILLY: Right.

ROSENBERG: So, first of all, I do not think that the sitting democratic
president is not actually done the things the "New York Times" has said the
democrats should be doing. And, if you just take the border, right, just take
this one piece of it -- I mean, we do not believe in open borders. This
administration has not created open borders. In fact, we have deported more
people out of the United States than any president in American history.

O'REILLY: That is because more people came across than any more time in American
history.

ROSENBERG: No, no, no, no. That is not true.

O'REILLY: And, if you say fact -- and those deportations --

ROSENBERG: Bill. Bill, that is not true.

O'REILLY: -- do not count on the sheet.

ROSENBERG: Bill, you and I talked about this before on your show is that is not
true what you just said.

O'REILLY: Yes, it is.

ROSENBERG: Far more people came in during the Clinton and Bush years. Millions
and millions and millions of people came in and settled here. Under Obama, the
undocumented population has not grown at all. We have gotten that under control.

O'REILLY: That is because people left because the economy was so bad. You are
distorting the border situation.

ROSENBERG: No, that is not -- Bill, the unemployment rate has dropped in half --

O'REILLY: All right.

ROSENBERG: And we have not seen any increase in the undocumented immigrants in
the United States. So, first of all --

O'REILLY: But, in the beginning, in the first four or five years of the Obama
administration, they went back because there were not any jobs. But, let us
look. This is not about President Obama. This is about an editorial that says
all of the points that I said.

ROSENBERG: Yes.

O'REILLY: This is an extreme view. And, I said not every democratic holds this
opinion. And, I understand you do not, Mr. Rosenberg.

ROSENBERG: Yes.

O'REILLY: Is that true?

ROSENBERG: I think the "New York Times'" opinions on immigration have been wrong
again and again and again. I think they make mistakes.

O'REILLY: Where are they going wrong?

ROSENBERG: And, I think the characterization of and their prescriptions and some
of the things they wrote in the editorial, I disagree with and so did this
administration.

O'REILLY: All right.

ROSENBERG: We have a democrat in the White House, right,.

O'REILLY: We are looking ahead, Mr. Rosenberg.

ROSENBERG: I understand. But, so, I want to agree something that was said
earlier about let us just take amnesty, right? What we are -- Because it was
brought up earlier. What we are talking about, what the democrats have promoted,
the current set of democrats and what was the in the comprehensive immigration
reform Bill was not amnesty. It was go to the back of line, pay a fine. Go
through a background check. Learn English.

O'REILLY: But that is amnesty, right here.

ROSENBERG: No. It is not.

O'REILY: This is.

ROSENBERG: It is not amnesty, Bill.

FUENTES: No. It is not.

O'REILLY: Sure it is.

FUENTES: No. It is not, Bill.

O'REILLY: I will read you. You want me to read it to you.

ROSENBERG: No, because we had amnesty in 1986. This is not amnesty.

O'REILLY: Look. What the "New York Times" and they base on Bernie Sanders'
proposal --

ROSENBERG: Right.

O'REILLY: Everybody would immediately have all of the rights of Americans and
that is amnesty. Jennice, let me ask you this. Do you think that Judeo-Christian
tradition in America has been exploitive and has been, you know, as the "New
York Times" believes, a blight on the nation? Do you believe that?

FUENTES: No. We are a diverse nation.

O'REILLY: So, you do not believe that our traditions should be wiped out?

FUENTES: Why would I believe that?

O'REILLY: Because that is what the "New York Times" believes.

FUENTES: Did I write that?

O'REILLY: Look, if you have an open border as their proposing, you then flood
the zone with millions and millions of people. And, all of our traditions go up
in smoke. There is no regulation under Bernie Sanders' plan at all and this is
what the "New York Times" has endorsed. None.

FUENTES: Bill, our immigration tradition continues to be the same as it was 20,
30, and 40 years ago.

O'REILLY: OK. I do not think you are understanding the forward vision that they
are putting forth.

FUENTES: No, but that vision is wrong. Our traditions are not threatened by
immigration. And, I do not want any viewer thinking that because that would be
incorrect and it does not correct who we are.

O'REILLY: Open borders threatens all of our traditions.

FUENTES: Nobody is talking --

O'REILLY: Jennice.

FUENTES: I am not supportive of open borders, where people walk in and we do not
know who they are.

O'REILLY: They are. This editorial supports open borders. Mr. Rosenberg, I am
giving you the same question, so wrap it up. Do you believe that our traditions
in America, which would be totally obliterated by an open border, anybody comes
here, which is what this is calling for, do you believe that they are wrong, our
traditions?

ROSENBERG: So, first of all, many of the immigrants who have come into the
United States over the last 50 years are Christian. And, So, particularly from
Latin America, many are catholic or have other -- protestants. And, so, the
Judeo-Christian tradition you are talking about has been reinforced and
strengthened by the immigration that we have had in the United States over the
last 50 years.

O'REILLY: But, if you look at the amount of immigrant homes on welfare, which is
at 50 percent, then I would have --

ROSENBERG: So, Bill --

O'REILLY: But, I have to go. It is a good debate. It is a good debate.

ROSENBERG: Yes.

FUENTES: We are not getting rid of the 11 million. We cannot deport them.

(LAUGHING)

O'REILLY: All right. There is more than that.

FUENTES: So, let us be realistic at least about that.

O'REILLY: This is calling for open borders.

ROSENBERG: So, Bill, have us back. Have us back, Bill. Have us back.

O'REILLY: All right.

ROSENBERG: OK.

FUENTES: We need more time.

O'REILLY: Next on the rundown, Donald Trump says he will not debate on CNN,
unless they pay him 5 million bucks. Take a look at that.

And, later, what is the truth about Muslims praising the 9/11 attack? Our Truth
Serum correspondents on the case up ahead.

(MUSIC PLAYING)

O'REILLY: And, in the Impact segment tonight, two controversial situations
involving Donald Trump and Ben Carson. First, Mr. Trump.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: How about we do this with CNN. I will not do the debate unless they pay
me $5 million, all of which money goes to the wounded warriors or go to vets. I
would love to do it.

(AUDIENCE CHEERING AND APPLAUDING)

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: Joining us now from Los Angeles, Leslie Marshall, here in New York
City, Andrea Tantaros, co-host of "Outnumbered". So, do you think Trump is going
to stand by that statement?

ANDREA TANTAROS, CO-HOST OF "OUTNUMBERED AT NOON" ON FNC: No.

O'REILLY: No?

TANTAROS: No, he has done this twice before.

O'REILLY: Twice?

TANTAROS: This is the third time.

O'REILLY: Yes, uh-huh.

TANTAROS: And, he showed up at the debate. It is a great PR tactic, because who
would disagree with that, right?

O'REILLY: Well, I am going to have him on the program tomorrow and then I am
going to say, "Are you going to show up or not?" He is going to have to tell me,
yes or no. I mean, you know, he knows I am going to ask him about that.

TANTAROS: And, he already walked it back, too. He said, "Well, I may show up,
because then they are going to say I am chicken if I do not." So, he is already
back pedaling on it.

O'REILLY: Really?

TANTAROS: Yes.

O'REILLY: OK. So, you think he says things like this, Mr. Trump, for what
reason?

TANTAROS: Earned media, and it worked. Who is going to argue with that? Our
troops are not getting taken care of. And, he puts the pressure on CNN, one, to
do something good to help the troops and it shows that he supports the troops,
and, two, it highlights how much money he makes CNN because is he so great. So,
it helps the troops and Trump, his two favorite things.

O'REILLY: OK. What do you say, Leslie.

LESLIE MARSHALL, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: I actually agree a lot with what Andrea
said regarding Donald. This is not about Wounded Warriors, which is an excellent
organization. This is about Donald Trump. Bill, you know as well as everyone in
the world, because you reminds us almost daily how much money he, Donald Trump,
has that he could write a check for $5 million dollars tomorrow to Wounded
Warriors.

This is about him. How much money he thinks he makes for CNN and all of the
networks. What he thinks the ratings are this is all about him. And, so is this
tactic. He is not going to go through with it like Andrea said. This will be the
third time. That is a charm. He is going to do the same thing.

O'REILLY: Is there any downside --

MARSHALL: Of course is he is going to show up.

O'REILLY: Is there any downside for any political candidate including Mr. Trump
to say things and then not follow through on them? Any downside?

MARSHALL: I do not think for Trump, it hurts him.

O'REILLY: No. He can do anything.

MARSHALL: When we just look at the polls among his people -- Yes!

O'REILLY: He is impervious.

MARSHALL: So far. So far.

O'REILLY: All right.

MARSHALL: But, I do think what it does is it hurts the process, Bill. Because,
the people who are not set on a candidate, who are republicans or want to weigh
in on who that G.O.P. nominee should be should hear everyone's idea on the
economy, on foreign policy. And, that is what they are going to tune in to CNN
or any other network for, not just for the sound bites.

O'REILLY: All right. But, if Trump does not show up then the debate does not get
the rating that it might. OK. Ben Carson is having a little bit of problem last
few weeks. He weighs in on the accusations from the left that over the top
rhetoric against Planned Parenthood led to the shootings in Colorado Springs.
Roll the tape?

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BEN CARSON, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: There is some pro-lifers, who will say
things like I can understand why somebody might come in to, you know, an
abortion clinic and shoot it up. You know, that is kind of over the top.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: Do you know any pro-life people, who said that? I mean in a position
of responsibility. Of course, you got kooks, but I do not remember any pro-life
person that I have covered ever saying anything like that.

TANTAROS: No, not one. I do not know where he is getting that one. No.

O'REILLY: Do you know any Leslie? Do you know any pro-life people, head of
organizations or, you know, anybody out there with a visible profile that has
ever said it is justified to kill people who are pro- abortion? Have you ever
heard anything like that?

MARSHALL: I have never heard anybody, who you are saying is credible. But, Bill,
when we look at the person who pulls the trigger, who is responsible for that
crime, I agree with you on that 100 percent.

However, when we look at like today, 1.8 million followers of the guy, who
started the Starbucks thing, who is saying we need to make doctors that perform
abortions very afraid. These are some of the areas that these people that
perhaps are not mentally stable are looking at --

O'REILLY: The difference between various prey and talking about violence.

MARSHALL: Yes.

O'REILLY: So, I did not know if Dr. Carson was in good territory there unless he
can name people. Because if he said it to me, I would have said, "Well, give me
a couple names, doctor, because what you are doing is demonizing a pro-life
movement that is generally peaceful and has been for decades."

TANTAROS: No. I think it was really foolish of him. The pro-life movement is
driven to persuade. Their rhetoric is based on reality, on cold hard truth.

O'REILLY: But, there are kooks. There are people who go over it, over the line.

TANTAROS: Occasionally -- that is true. There is a kook here and there.

O'REILLY: Right.

TANTAROS: There are kooky pastors here.

O'REILLY: Right.

TANTAROS: There is a guy, who shot at the Planned Parenthood Center. But, the
pro-life movement has been peaceful. They lobby for legislation to educates.
And, you know what? They tweak the conscience of Americans. And, it is working
as you know --

O'REILLY: Yes, right.

TANTAROS: -- because polls do not support late-term abortions.

O'REILLY: Overwhelmingly, and I think Leslie would agree. The pro- life lobby
has conducted itself in a very professional manner. Last word, Leslie.

MARSHALL: I do not disagree with that. What we are looking at is those that
demonize. We are looking at frequency and we are looking at individuals that are
not necessarily believing facts but sound bites --

O'REILLY: All right, but we cannot --

MARSHALL: -- and some of those sound bites are demonizing.

O'REILLY: -- you cannot really, you know, talk about nuts. And, when Dr. Carson
comes back, we will ask him about it. Ladies, thanks very much.

Directly ahead, Donald Trump says he saw Muslims celebrating the 9/11 attacks in
Jersey. Now, we have been investigating that.

Also, police chief in Chicago fired by liberal Mayor Rahm Emanuel. Is the chief,
being made a scapegoat? Those reports after these messages.

(MUSIC PLAYING)

O'REILLY: Truth Serum Segment tonight, two very hot topics. Who is buying oil
from ISIS, keeping the savages in business? Also, Donald Trump claiming he saw
some American Muslims celebrate the 9/11 attack.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: Hey, I watched when the World Trade Center came tumbling down. And, I
watched in Jersey City, New Jersey, where thousands and thousands of people were
cheering as that building was coming down. Thousands of people were cheering.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: Now, that statement by Mr. Trump has become very controversial. So,
what are the facts? Joining us from Washington Shannon Bream, and here in New
York City, Eric Shawn, both Fox News Correspondents. OK. there were some Muslims
in America happy about the attacks. That has been established beyond a
reasonable doubt. Let us start there.

ERIC SHAWN, FOX NEWS ANCHOR & SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: Well, not thousands and
thousands in one place as he said. Professor Earthan Kolaja (ph) of Felician
University (ph) in New Jersey studied this 10 years ago. He says, "Well, there
was not one place and there was no evidence of one large -scale demonstration.
What you are seeing there is what happened in Jerusalem and the Gaza.

O'REILLY: Yes.

SHAWN: So, maybe Donald Trump was mixing that up. But, he said there were maybe
a half a dozen teenagers in Patterson, New Jersey. There have been people
through the years, who have said that they did see this. Courteously, with WABC,
he said he was getting phone calls that morning about this.

O'REILLY: There were people in New Jersey according to the state police we have
investigated, Muslims, who were happy about the 9/11 attack. But, they were not
vast numbers of them.

SHAWN: No. Yes, I talked to Mayor Giuliani tonight about New York. He said maybe
there were 12. And, he knows that because they were getting beaten up.

O'REILLY: Yes, that was in New York City.

SHAWN: That was in New York City.

O'REILLY: Right.

SHAWN: But, here is something that we found two days after 9/11. This is the
"New York Post" September 13th. Trio who cheered attack face boot as illegal
aliens. Three men who celebrated as the twin towers crumbled are facing
deportation.

Witnesses saw them cheering and jumping up and down at liberty state park after
the attack and the FBI sent this out, Bill. It said, three individuals were seen
celebrating after initial impact and subsequent explosion.

O'REILLY: OK. And, we must tell everybody that we tried at Mr. Trump's request
to get video of any of the Jersey situations. All of the affiliated stations,
including New York one, the cable station here, they say they do not have any
video. And, if they did, they would have run it. I mean we do not have any.

SHAWN: Yes. We have looked. Not only that, reporters and cameramen, you have you
been on the streets for years.

O'REILLY: Yes.

SHAWN: You know, you would come out and say, "Yes, I covered that. I was there."

O'REILLY: Yes, there was -- they said, there is no video of it, but I think, you
are right when you said that he probably conflated a voiceover of Palestinians
celebrating with the local reporter saying, "We got some problems in Jersey."
Because, I think that probably happened.

All right, Mr. Trump again will be here tomorrow and we will run it by him. Now,
ISIS, in order for these killers to operate, they need money. And, they get the
money by selling oil from the oil fields that they have captured in IRAQ. We
want to know who is buying oil from the savages and Ms. Shannon Bream has that
information. Who is buying it, Shannon?

SHANNON BREAM, FNC SUPREME COURT CORRESPONDENT: Well, Bill, it depends on who
you ask, but it looks like what is happening is local traders are actually
showing up, fueling up in some areas. There is actually a month long wait at
these oil fields controlled by the rebels, where local traders will buy the oil
and then it is used in the rebel held areas.

But, the U.S. has now made allegations that Syria -- the government of Syria
itself may be buying some of this oil benefiting ISIS. But, there are now
allegations coming out of Russia. They believe that turkey is actually
facilitating this as well.

O'REILLY: OK. So, what happens --

BREAM: So, there could be some state actors.

O'REILLY: You correct me if I am wrong, because you are the Truth Serum
correspondent. So, guys with trucks show up at the oil fields, or the oil
refineries, because they have to refine the oil into gasoline. All right.

They load their trucks. They pay ISIS on the spot for the oil, whatever ISIS
charges them. They take the trucks, and they drive. And, you are saying they
drive three place, these are the allegations.

One in ISIS held areas where they sell to gasoline stations or power stations.
Two, to Assad's government, who got money and they need oil, so they buy from
them, and maybe Turkey. I have not heard the Turkey thing from the west. Putin
is accusing them of everything. You know that.

BREAM: Yes. Right.

O'REILLY: Do I have the story right?

BREAM: You are exactly right. And, I will tell you that Turkey's President
Erdogan, speaking in Paris where they are having as a climate gathering said
that, if this turns out to be true, he will actually resign his position. He
says, there is no way they are officially involved with it.

O'REILLY: Yes, I tend to believe the Turks are not buying, because they hate
ISIS. But, now, we are bombing those trucks, which we should have been doing a
long time ago, all right? But for some reason, President Obama would not allow
the trucks to be bombed, but now they are being bombed.

OK, thanks very much, you guys. We appreciate it. Plenty more ahead. As "The
Factor" moves along this evening, the man who blocked Jessica's Law in New York
City -- in New York State I should say, found guilty of massive corruption.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE REPORTER: What about Jessica's law? Are you going to enact?

SHELDON SILVER, FORMER SPEAKER OF THE NEW YORK STATE ASSEMBLY: We have done that
sir. We have done that. Tell Mr. O'Reilly, he is wrong.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: Also head, Gutfeld and McGuirk on Tim Tebow getting hammered for his
dating habits. Wait until you hear this. We hope you stay tuned for those
reports.

(MUSIC PLAYING)

O'REILLY: FACTOR "Follow-Up" segment tonight. Campus madness, a couple of
examples from many. University of Vermont in Burlington, it was a three day
retreat so students could confront their white privilege status. Framingham
State University in Massachusetts complete chaos there because one student had a
confederate flag on his laptop.

Joining us now from Washington, Katie Pavlich, here in New York City, Kennedy,
host her own program on the FOX Business Network. Have confronted your white
privilege background?

KENNEDY, FOX BUSINESS HOST, "KENNEDY": You are pointing at me. You are pointing
at me.

O'REILLY: I point to anybody.

KENNEDY: You didn't even mention me the trigger warning before you ask me about
my whiteness.

O'REILLY: This is the magic finger right here. Once you point at someone, they
become a star.

KENNEDY: You're a Harry Potter and that is a macroaggression. I don't even know
what it means to confront one's whiteness. I don't. Perhaps on the Rachel
Dolezal of Oswego, a very diverse community in the Portland area as you know.

O'REILLY: Yes. Certainly you were raised in like Oswego, which was an affluent
suburb --

KENNEDY: Yes.

O'REILLY: So, you have white privilege.

KENNEDY: I don't know that I do. I have never cashed in on my white privilege.

O'REILLY: You have never done that. Maybe unconsciously you have.

KENNEDY: Unconsciously doesn't count. In the words of Sigmund Freud. Unconscious
--

O'REILLY: But the University of Vermont Katie, it counts, the white privilege
three days. They didn't need one day. They needed three days to confront their
white privilege background.

KATIE PAVLICH, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: You know, Bill, to me especially in the
northeast confronting my white privilege is going to the tanning salon. Don't
worry it's a spray tan, so it's not going to give me cancer hopefully. But look,
you know, we are talking about this white privilege issue and, yes, it's funny
and it's easy to laugh at. But I actually think it's quite racist and I think
what we have to talk about it in those terms.

O'REILLY: Why is it racist? Why is white privilege racist? I mean, the other
side says, if you are white you are racist just by the privilege you have.

PAVLICH: You are being prejudiced towards people based on the color of their
skin. And I reject this idea that only white people can be racist when white
students on these university campuses are now being ostracized for the color of
their skin. I mean, it's out of control. You have the University of Kansas. You
have students who aren't embracing the Black Lives Matter Movement so they are
being run out of student government.

O'REILLY: Yes.

PAVLICH: You have presidents of universities, their careers being ruined as a
result of not going with the flow of what's, you know, politically correct, with
no evidence by the way. And it's anti-American. We're not allowed to have free
speech on these college campuses. They're pitting students against each other
based on race. I mean, it really is quite alarming.

O'REILLY: It is pathetic, that's for sure. Now, in the Framingham State
situation, some nutty kid, all right?

KENNEDY: Yes.

O'REILLY: Has a little sticker on his computer of the confederate flag. So, I
mean, who cares? The kid is a nut. That's all.

KENNEDY: He is a nut. He is an instigator. That's what you do when you are 18 or
19 years old. That's what college used to be for. It used to be four,
expression, taking risks, making some enemies and having fun. Do I think it's
funny? Would I have it on my computer? No.

O'REILLY: Would it send you into analysis?

KENNEDY: Well, no. That's exactly what they're doing.

O'REILLY: Because they are framing him they are providing counseling. They are
having counselors come in.

KENNEDY: They're having counselling for people who might have been somehow
affected by the bias incident. And I hope at some point, they start firing.

O'REILLY: You know, but I think that's a good thing, Katie because the
counsellors -- wait, hear me out, the counselors can maybe say look, forget
about the confederate flag thing. That's stupid. You being upset about, that's
what we want to talk about. What's the matter with you?

PAVLICH: Yes. Well, Bill, this is the problem. And, you know, the administrators
and the professors are wondering how this happened on college campuses because
they are eating their own. But the professors and the administrators have
created this monster through their diversity program. Through their tolerance
programs.

O'REILLY: Cow tailing to insane --

(CROSSTALK)

KENNEDY: Yes. There is safe -- she is absolutely right, there is safe spaces and
they are actually making it a more dangerous environment because this is nothing
like the real world. And unfortunately college presidents are running these
institutions of learning like they are five star hotels.

PAVLICH: Yep.

O'REILLY: All right, ladies. Very interesting. When we come right back, "Is it
Legal?" on the police chief in Chicago being fired. And the man who blocked
Jessica's law in New York State convicted of massive corruption. Legal is next.

O'REILLY: Thanks for staying with us. I'm Bill O'Reilly in the "Is it Legal?"
segment tonight. Three very controversial stories. We begin with Sheldon Silver,
for 21 years he was the most powerful Democrat in the New York State Assembly.
True villain. Silver did a number of awful things including blocking Jessica's
Law.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JESSE WATTERS, O'REILLY FACTOR CORRESPONDENT: What about Jessica's law --

SHELDON SILVER (D), FORMER SPEAKER OF THE NEW YORK STATE ASSEMBLY: We have done
that, sir. We have done that. Tell Mr. O'Reilly, he's wrong.

WATTERS: What I was concerned about was this Jessica's Law is say was passed,
it's only a 10 year mandatory --

SILVER: We passed Jessica's Law, sir.

WATTERS: And there has to be four aggravating factors. We have multiple victims.

SILVER: We passed Jessica's Law. The Senate passed Jessica's, the Governor
signed Jessica's Law. Okay?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: Not okay. Instead of 25 years mandatory, New York law says 10. And
it's full of loopholes. But now Sheldon Silver has been convicted of seven
counts of massive corruption.

Here to tell us about it, attorneys and FOX News analysts Kimberly Guilfoyle and
Lis Wiehl. So, what did he do, Wiehl?

LIS WIEHL, FOX NEWS LEGAL ANALYST: He took $4 million in bribery and kickbacks.
Specifically he gave money to one professor at Columbia, about 500,000 to funnel
money to this professor for research. He said, the professor then used a law
firm that Silver was with, gave clients of that law firm, you know, money to
that law firm. The law firm then was the middle person giving Silver all this
money.

O'REILLY: All right. So, Silver directs $500,000, this is just one, one example,
$500,000 of taxpayer money, all right, to a Columbia university professor.

WIEHL: Correct. For research.

O'REILLY: Who then does business with Silver's law firm --

WIEHL: Correct.

O'REILLY: -- of which he is a partner.

(CROSSTALK)

Right. And the money comes back in to Silver's pocket, is that about it?

KIMBERLY GUILFOYLE, FOX NEWS LEGAL ANALYST: That's absolutely correct. And when
you think about those seven counts, I mean, they just swept him on this. He went
down on everything. He is looking at approximately 130 years. He is 71 years of
age. But this is sending a strong message about corruption. And you look at the
variety of charges. Extortion under color of right, monetary transactions
involving criminal proceeds. Very bad. Honest services, wire fraud. A number of
counts of that.

O'REILLY: Right. Because all he did.

GUILFOYLE: This has gone on for years.

O'REILLY: So, this guy, and he is 21, he is probably -- he is 21 --

GUILFOYLE: Seventy one.

O'REILLY: Seventy one. He is going to get 20. I think that's what they are going
to give him.

WIEHL: He will spend the rest of his life in jail.

O'REILLY: You think so?

WIEHL: Yes.

O'REILLY: All right. No parole? Because you are in the federal system.

WIEHL: Exactly.

O'REILLY: And the U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara, that's the thing? Excellent job
by the way.

GUILFOYLE: Absolutely.

O'REILLY: Excellent job. Because not only was this guy the most powerful
democrat in the state, all right.

GUILFOYLE: Yes.

O'REILLY: Beside the governor, Skelos, the most powerful republican senator, he
is indicted too. So what does this tell you about New York State?

GUILFOYLE: Well, it tells you that there is corruption.

O'REILLY: Everywhere.

GUILFOYLE: People will.

O'REILLY: Everywhere.

GUILFOYLE: People will be held accountable.

(CROSSTALK)

Bur tight now, Bill. He is out. He is free on bail and there will be an appeal
but I do not feel that it will be overturned.

O'REILLY: It took the jury 35 seconds to convict him. All right. Chicago, the
police chief gets fired today by Rahm Emanuel. Because Chicago is pretty much
out of control in the minority precincts. But overall Scott McCarthy who came
from New York City, who was an NYPD guy at one time. What kind of job did he do
generally speaking Guilfoyle?

GUILFOYLE: Well, this is very interesting. Because you have to dig into the
facts here to look at the record. And some might say it was a mixed review.
However beginning with first full year in office in 2012. Crime actually
steadily went down under Mr. McCarthy. And you saw that there was a decrease in
murders, et cetera, up until this year in 2015.

O'REILLY: Yes, sure they are. But all of the murderers anywhere centered in
south side of Chicago in certain neighborhoods where drug gangs --

WIEHL: It's not as if it's gone crazy.

O'REILLY: No, it's not on the miracle mile.

WIEHL: Right.

O'REILLY: It's not on Rough Street.

WIEHL: Right.

O'REILLY: It's not in the North of Chicago, it's not south where the ghettos
are. But that was my beef is that they let this happen every weekend and, you
know --

GUILFOYLE: But now he is the fall guy for it, right? Because of the video and
the outrage.

O'REILLY: Right. And the guy who got killed --

GUILFOYLE: Keep in mind, he works for the mayor. The mayor fired him. The mayor
had already seen the video. Why didn't the mayor release the video to begin
with?

WIEHL: The mayor not always -- the city settled a $5 million dollar lawsuit on
this right before he was going to actually Rahm Emanuel was.

O'REILLY: Look, look, anybody who has watched this video tape and this stone kid
gets shot 16 times, he had a knife that's far away. You know, look.

GUILFOYLE: Shot from behind.

O'REILLY: Look, but you don't fire a police chief over one bad cop.

GUILFOYLE: Right. But he also praised him. He said, the mayor's praised
McCarthy's leadership in the force that calls it undeniable fact that the
public's trust in the police had eroded. That's it.

O'REILLY: Right. Look, I love Chicago. But you guys got to wise up there and
vote better people into office than this. All right. Another guy jumps over the
White House fence?

WIEHL: Another guy.

O'REILLY: Twenty two-year-old Joseph Caputo.

WIEHL: Right.

O'REILLY: What I want to know about this is, look, there is the idiot. And there
was another guy Omar Gonzalez a few months ago. What did Omar Gonzalez get for
jumping over the fence?

WIEHL: Seventeen months in federal court. Because he got further than this kid
got. He actually got in --

O'REILLY: He got into the doorway.

GUILFOYLE: And he pushed --

WIEHL: And he -- first guy actually pushed the secret service officer, I think
he pushed her down. So, he got more time.

O'REILLY: Seventeen months Omar serving? Right?

WIEHL: Well, yes. Serving. He will get out at the end of next year. He'll get 15
months, you know, in federal prison.

O'REILLY: Right.

WIEHL: I don't think this guy is going to get that much. He was, you know, he is
--

O'REILLY: I would give the guy two years.

GUILFOYLE: He has mental health issues. His attorney says he has Asperger's, he
was carrying a weapon --

O'REILLY: Okay. Why do we want him running around for? Give him two years in
prison.

GUILFOYLE: I don't know. But he clears the spite.

O'REILLY: Can't be hopping the fence at the White House.

O'REILLY: Got to be doing a better job.

O'REILLY: Should be a big sign, hop the fence you get five years in jail? I
don't think if you have hamburger or whatever. You get five years.

GUILFOYLE: Yes.

O'REILLY: All right. Ladies, thank you.

Gutfeld, McGuirk on deck, why is the media torturing Tim Tebow over his social
life. The boys moments away.

O'REILLY: "Back of the Book" segment tonight. "What The Heck Just Happened?" We
begin with President Obama comparing the pilgrims to Syrian refugees.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

PRES. BARACK OBAMA (D), UNITED STATES: Nearly four centuries after the Mayflower
set sail, the world is still full of pilgrims. Men and women who want nothing
more than the chance for a safer better future for themselves and their
families. What makes America America is that we offer that chance. We turn lady
liberty's light to the world and widen our circle of concern to say that all
God's children are worthy of our compassion and care.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: Here now Gutfeld and McGuirk. Make you cry. You know, very heartfelt,
but you know totally ignoring the realities of the situation that people in
Syria, by and large are good but there are some bad people. And you got to be
very careful.

GREG GUTFELD, HOST, "THE GREG GUTFELD SHOW": So, he is comparing pilgrims to the
Syrians. That's an insult from the Left. Because aren't pilgrims genocidal
maniacs that destroyed the Indian population?

O'REILLY: (INAUDIBLE)

GUTFELD: Yes. So, he actually insulted the Syrian refugees. But the point is,
his logic is flawed because it's like, if you were to buy a product that will --
that was contaminated, small percentage, you would have it recalled.

O'REILLY: Uh-hm.

GUTFELD: So, that's the same thing with the refugee crisis. It's even if it was
a tiny percentage. You have to be careful.

O'REILLY: You have to be careful. But I have to correct the pilgrims really
didn't slaughter the Indians.

GUTFELD: No. But that's the Left wing ideology. They tried to get, you know,
bond with them a little. Because there were many food in the Indian's desk. That
was a smart move.

BERNARD MCGUIRK, EXECUTIVE PRODUCER, "IMUS IN THE MORNING": The difference is
they were actually pioneers. And they actually fought the Indians.

O'REILLY: Sometimes.

MCGUIRK: Right. They fought with them for their own safety. And, you know, they
fought for what they've got. They fought. Now the Syrian refugees are actually
-- they are fleeing a civil war instead of staying there and fighting for their
own, whatever that --

O'REILLY: Yes. The kids and women can't do that. I just think that the President
is exploiting our history in a way that's totally out of context.

GUTFELD: He's turning the war on terror into a war on immigration, which is
basically like saying firefighting is an attack on buildings.

O'REILLY: Yes. I mean, you know, you can make a case, a very heartfelt case that
we should take every single suffering child, all right, woman in -- in the world
and bring them here. You can make that case.

MCGUIRK: Well, look, Greg, he may have stumbled on to something. Obama -- Greg
said that what he said last Columbus Day, Obama said that pilgrims introduced
devastation violence into the lives of indigenous people. He said that last
month.

O'REILLY: Yes. But the Spanish were totally different than the English.

MCGUIRK: But that's kind of like what happened in Paris and with the Tsarnaev
brothers in Boston. So, maybe he stumbled on to something by accident.

O'REILLY: All right. There's a way do all this without polarizing the whole
country. Of course, Washington -- but there is a way. Okay, now. This story
bothered me. I don't know Tim Tebow. I think I met him once. And he seems to be
a nice guy. But he is a traditional guy, a religious guy. And now the tabloid
papers are smearing him because they don't like his dating habits. Now, it all
has to do with a woman named Olivia Culpo, Miss Universe 2012 who we had
actually had here on THE FACTOR, because she herself is very conservative. And
is anti-drug, anti- intoxicants. All of that. Roll the tape.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: Intoxication is not for you, right? Intoxication, getting drunk, not
for you?

OLIVIA CULPO, MISS UNIVERSE 2012: It's not definitely not for me during this
job. Well, I'm an international role model especially in this country where it
is -- there's a drinking age. I need to respect that, especially not only as a
citizen of this country but as a role model.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: All right. Now, they said that Tebow was going out with her and they
broke up because Tebow wouldn't have sex with Miss Culpo. And it turns out to be
totally bogus.

MCGUIRK: According to TMZ, they did say it was bogus. But still that didn't stop
publications like "The Daily News" from printing some really nasty --

O'REILLY: Nasty, snarky, garbage.

MCGUIRK: Yes. Like a Tim Tebow still can't find the end zone. His girlfriend
breaks it off over lack of sex.

O'REILLY: Right. Right. They think they're really cute over there, you know? I
mean --

MCGUIRK: Left wing of a media bullies is what they are. They said they celebrate
courageous drug sniffing pervert Charlie Sheen for coming out with HIV. You
know, that's a big accomplishment. Maybe 30 years ago, that would have been
courageous. What he's doing is courageous in this day and age which, you know,
celebrating --

O'REILLY: Well, I think Tebow's private life should be left alone. But even
"Sports Illustrated" -- "Sports Illustrated" cheap shots him.

GUTFELD: It's terrible, you know, and it's very, very tough for her. After our
ugly breakup and now this.

O'REILLY: You and Olivia?

GUTFELD: Yes. She's doing great though. She's staying at my place until she's
strong enough to move on. But I have always been there for Olivia. And I just
think what's happening to her is an injustice that must stop. Can we please show
more pictures of her during this disturbing segment? I think -- can we roll
more?

O'REILLY: All right. So, it's clear you thought a lot about this Tim Tebow
situation. You have analyzed it very, very well.

GUTFELD: I think it's a touching moving story that has changed my life.

O'REILLY: All right. And you know, she's a little like the pilgrim woman.

GUTFELD: Yes.

O'REILLY: Okay, guys.

MCGUIRK: Very strong.

O'REILLY: Gentlemen, FACTOR "Tip of the Day," it's a special Tuesday. But you
might not know why. We will tell you in the tip moments away.

O'REILLY: FACTOR "Tip of the Day." Why is today special in a moment. But first,
the No Spin elves want you. BillO'Reilly.com personal story for business, we
have amazing gifts for you. Look at all those things. Including historical
parchments that you can frame up. Also, we want to give you a special gift for
Christmas and Hanukah. If you spend 40 bucks or more on BillO'Reilly.com, you
get a free bumper sticker that reads, think about your country. Very worthy
message.

Finally, "Killing Jesus" has reached France. Book title says "Jesus The Last
Days" with a subtitle, more than two million copies sold. Right now the Killing
books are in 23 languages around the world. They make terrific holiday gifts.
And please don't forget about the kids. "Hitler's Last Days," "Lincoln's Last
Days," things like that. Great for the urchins. Get them off the machines.

Now, the mail.

Doug Evans, Columbus, Ohio. "Bill, you criticize the liberal media for releasing
pictures of Abu Ghraib. Now you say you are so merely reporting the truth about
Planned Parenthood and Dr. Tiller shouldn't be blamed for inciting violence.
What's the difference?"

Americans were fighting in Iraq at the time, Doug. You may remember. They were
under fire there. You don't provoke more danger for troops in the field. I
reported the Abu Ghraib's story but didn't exploit it by over using the shocking
images.

J.C. Henderson, Rochester, New York. "Bill, it sounded like you and Dr. Goolsbee
were implying that you have to be mentally ill to murder someone. There is
something called evil."

Mental illness does not excuse destructive behavior, only true insanity, which
is rare, does that. Evil often resides in people who have personality disorders.

Steve Murrow, Murrells Inlet, South Carolina. "O'Reilly, I wish you had asked
Goolsbee if the murders of police officers around the country were inspired by
anti-cop rhetoric from the Left."

Didn't have to ask him that, Steve. The doctor agreed with me that felonious
individuals are responsible for their own behavior. No one else.

Ed Perucci, Kalamazoo, Michigan. "Bill, you were out of line saying the Chicago
police allows mass murder to occur. They are doing what they can in war zone."

It's not good enough, Ed. It's not good enough. There were war zones here in New
York City. And the NYPD largely neutralized them under Giuliani and Bloomberg.
There's a big problem in Chicago.

Danny Woodward, London, England. "O'Reilly, do you think the commander-in-chief
of the Armed Forces should be a military person to avoid politics?"

No, Danny, I don't. The founders feared the military could become too strong and
unaccountable. So, so the instituted civilian control under the President. Not
perfect but it has worked.

Anne Rogers, Bedford, Virginia. "Killing Reagan had me in tears. My husband a
World War II vet was handicapped for 13 years before he died. The book's
dedication meant a great deal to me."

Thanks, Anne. I dedicated "Killing Reagan" to all of those caring for an elderly
or disabled person. That's because of what Nancy Reagan did for the President in
his last years.

And finally tonight, the FACTOR "Tip of the Day," it's Tuesday but not just an
ordinary Tuesday. For the fourth consecutive year, the 92nd street y in New York
City has designated this day giving Tuesday. The motivation is for you to be
generous this Christmas and Hanukah season. Now here's the FACTOR "Tip of the
Day." Make a list, not of gifts you want, but of gifts you want to give,
especially donations to charities you trust. I did that over the weekend. Made
the list. I'm going to execute it this week. Giving definitely better for the
soul than receiving.

And that's it for us tonight. Please check out the FOX News FACTOR website which
is different from BillO'Reilly.com. Also, we'd like you to spout off about THE
FACTOR from anywhere in the world. O'Reilly@FOXNews.com O'Reilly@FOXNews.com
Name and town if you wish to opine. Word of the day, let's see some comity. Not
comedy. Comity. When writing to THE FACTOR. Trump tomorrow.

Again, thanks for watching us tonight. Miss Megyn is next. I am Bill O'Reilly,
please always remember the spin stops right here because we are definitely
looking out for you.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120101cb.256

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            December 1, 2015 Tuesday

                        SHOW: THE KELLY FILE 9:00 PM EST

Growing Calls For Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel To Resign; Left Blaming Right
Rhetoric For Shooting; Carly Fiorina on Planned Parenthood Backlash

BYLINE: Megyn Kelly, Mike Tobin

GUESTS: Kevin Jackson, Richard Fowler, Tony Perkins, Carly Fiorina, Marc
Thiessen, Bill Burton, mark Eiglarsh, Arthur Aidala, Trace Gallagher

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 7935  words


MEGYN KELLY, HOST, "THE KELLY FILE": Breaking tonight, a dramatic twist in a
police shooting that has rocked one of America's most violent cities. As the
mayor of Chicago, a man known as one of the President's closest confidants,
faces new calls for an expanded investigation by the DOJ and a growing chorus of
critics demanding that he resign.

Welcome to THE KELLY FILE, everyone. I'm Megyn Kelly. Just hours ago, Chicago
Mayor Rahm Emanuel fired his police chief in a move critic say was designed to
save his own job. Chicago has dealt with days of protests after police last week
released a video of a white police officer shooting and killing a black man
Laquan McDonald 16 times. Video that took more than a year to release to the
public and that was only after it came out pursuant to a court order. Once a
reporter pushed a judge. As of today, the Illinois Attorney General is now
asking the Department of Justice to launch a civil rights investigation into the
Chicago PD and its handling of this case.

While Justice started looking into this particular shooting last April, Laquan
McDonald was actually killed six months before that in October of 2014. That's
leading to questions about why it took the DOJ half a year to get involved in
Chicago when it took just two days for the department to respond to police
involved shootings in Ferguson, Missouri and Baltimore, Maryland. What's more,
some media outlets are now asking if the city's slow walked this investigation
to get past a tough re-election fight for the mayor last winter. A campaign
where the President himself went to Chicago to rally votes for Mayor Emanuel.
Remember, during the President's first term, no one was arguably closer to Mr.
Obama than Rahm Emanuel. And he made a lot of political enemies with his
combative take no prisoner style. One more reason why the mayor's news
conference this morning immediately became one of the biggest stories in the
country.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Why is this task force's report not due until after the
primary? There seems to be a political decision.

RAHM EMANUEL (D), CHICAGO MAYOR: No. I beg to differ. First of all, I think if
you know, the work that I -- I just said this to them. If they could get it done
earlier, great. That's the deadline.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Why is it you have not acted on this issue until now when the
judge forced the release of this video and forced you to act?

EMANUEL: Well, I just -- as I could, beg to differ with that.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mayor you have answered the calls for the superintendent's
resignation. Why not the calls for your own resignation?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Wasn't it clear to you --

EMANUEL: Thank you.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: In moments, Kevin Jackson and Richard Fowler are here on set on the
political fallout. But first, Mike Tobin reports live from Chicago. Mike?

MIKE TOBIN, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: And Megyn, although this announcement was a
bombshell, people saw this coming. It seems the only one who was really
surprised was Garry McCarthy himself. He made the rounds on local radio this
morning insisting that he would not step down. Hours later, the mayor demanded
his resignation. Mayor Rahm Emanuel however could not give any specifics as to
why McCarthy had to go. Saying only that he had become an issue instead of
handling the issues. That McCarthy was a distraction. Mayor Emanuel was
referencing the loud public cry from demonstrators, the minority leaders that
there had been a cover- up. One of the best columnist in Chicago, John Kass
wrote that the case was stalled to get Emanuel through re-election. So, as the
demonstrators were calling for McCarthy to be fired, right from the first night
of the demonstrations if you'll remember, they have also been calling for the
ouster of the State's Attorney Anita Alvarez and Mayor Emanuel himself.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Rahm Emanuel needs to be impeached. He knew this happened
12 months ago. Rahm Emanuel needs to be impeached today.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

TOBIN: Now, one of the things Emanuel said today that a police officer, meaning
McCarthy, is only as effective as the trust he has from the people he serves.
Well now you have minority leaders, you have the people marching on the street,
you have op-ed columnists in both local and national papers insisting that Mayor
Emanuel has lost the trust of the people he serves -- Megyn.

KELLY: Mike Tobin, thank you.

Joining me now with more, Kevin Jackson, executive director of the
TheBlacksPhere.net and Richard Fowler, a nationally syndicated radio host. Thank
you both so much for being here. So, the question is whether there is some
different treatment of what we're seeing now in Chicago and with the Chicago PD
by this administration than what we saw in other cities that don't have happen
to be run by one of the President's closest confidants. And I'll just give you
some of the stats. Two days after Michael Brown was killed, in Ferguson,
Missouri, Eric Holder came out and said, this case has to be reviewed.

President Obama commented the next day. One week later, Eric Holder was in
Ferguson. One month later, the DOJ had announced the pattern and practice
investigation of the entire city of Ferguson. Similar stats happened out of
Baltimore after Freddie Gray was killed. But you go to Chicago and it took six
months for them to announce any DOJ involvement. Six months. And we haven't
heard the President making a deal out of this, or Loretta Lynch -- Kevin, I'll
ask you.

KEVIN JACKSON, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, THEBLACKSPHERE.NET: Amazing commentary. When
you look at Ferguson, it turned out in fact that Ferguson was wrong. I mean,
they were wrong about what happened there. So the idea that Rahm Emanuel -- this
is a political cover-up at the highest level. Barack Obama is complicit in the
sense that he should have come and made a statement about this. I know Richard
is going to disagree but this is one --

KELLY: He made a paper statement this week.

RICHARD FOWLER, NATIONALLY SYNDICATED RADIO HOST: The President did release a
statement about this.

KELLY: This week.

FOWLER: Right. And I think --

KELLY: Not two days after.

FOWLER: No. But I think --

KELLY: He didn't send his Attorney General to go on the ground in Chicago within
a week like we saw in Ferguson.

FOWLER: Don't get me wrong. I think that Rahm Emanuel clearly and -- the Chicago
City government has some cover-up here. It took 13 months for an indictment. The
prosecutor seems to be at fault. But in Baltimore, let's talk about Baltimore
specifically, the mayor asked for the Department of Justice to come in right
after. He said, I'm asking for the Department of Justice to come and engage in
an investigation. Today was the first time anybody -- any official from Illinois
has asked for the Department of Justice to come --

KELLY: DOJ went in six months ago. The question is, why did it take them six
months to get there unlike these other cases.

FOWLER: There was a political cover-up at city hall. That's very obvious.

JACKSON: He is bolstering exactly what we are talking about here.

FOWLER: What am I bolstering?

JACKSON: Well, the fact that the Baltimore Mayor called in DOJ and did Rahm
Emanuel call in DOJ? No. Because Rahm Emanuel --

FOWLER: Exactly. That's the problem. But to paint the White House here -- I
don't think that's fair to paint the President or Loretta Lynch when they were
not called in --

KELLY: Do you not see a difference in treatment, Richard?

FOWLER: Not at all. I think it's the job of the mayor to call for the Department
of Justice to come in.

KELLY: That didn't happen in Ferguson.

JACKSON: That didn't happen in Ferguson.

FOWLER: But the Governor did. The Governor did in Missouri.

JACKSON: He did not.

FOWLER: The Governor --

(CROSSTALK)

KELLY: You are telling me --

FOWLER: He did.

KELLY: Two days after Michael Brown was killed, Eric Holder said this case must
be reviewed. Two days after.

FOWLER: There's a distinction in the two cases. And I think you can't compare
apples and oranges here. In this case the video was not released to the public.
The police department held on to the video. Meaning, the Department of Justice
couldn't see it either.

KELLY: Do you think the DOJ hadn't seen it six months -- until six months after
the --

FOWLER: I think when the DOJ saw the video, nobody knows --

KELLY: You have no idea. You have no idea. You don't know what the DOJ saw.

FOWLER: No, I hears you -- if they did --

KELLY: The question is whether there's a double standard when it involves a
friend of the President.

JACKSON: And there absolutely was a double standard.

FOWLER: What is a double standard?

JACKSON: Well, let's look at what happened in Ferguson immediately. The DOJ
comes in and they start looking at e-mails.

FOWLER: Because of a dead body was on street for four hours.

KELLY: Because the city of Ferguson wasn't run by the President's former chief
of staff. That's the allegation.

FOWLER: I agree. Listen. I agree that there's problems at City Hall. I think
everybody agrees that.

KELLY: There's problems at the White House in different treatment depending on
whether his friend is running the city.

FOWLER: Megyn, I think that's absolutely ridiculous. This is preposterous to
believe that Loretta Lynch, without getting all the information in a timely
manner, could make a distinction --

KELLY: What?

JACKSON: She didn't have all the information about Ferguson -- and it turned out
that --

KELLY: Go ahead. Give him a chance. Go ahead, Kevin.

JACKSON: It turned out Ferguson was wrong. And I heard Richard on your show the
other day, still bringing Ferguson up.

FOWLER: Look, if you read the Department of Justice --

JACKSON: It was proved --

KELLY: Let him finish.

JACKSON: It was proven that they were wrong. They jumped the gun and they did
everything being asked of Rahm Emanuel which he admitted he handled it wrongly.

FOWLER: Agree.

JACKSON: But the reason he is able to get away with it up to this point is
exactly what --

KELLY: Can I say, in Rahm Emanuel's defense, we do not yet know whether he
handled it wrongly. He says there was a reason for the delay. That there was an
investigation under way that's been rejected so far. But time will tell whether
in fact he was in the right or the wrong about that. But right now, what do you
think? Does he survive this?

FOWLER: I don't know. I think we have to see what happens. Listen, his mayoral
race was very, very close. So he's up against the Commissioner Chuy Garcia who
was the first time that a Democrat and Democrat were in the primary together.
Right? So, I think he has a -- he has a tough road. Whether he will going to
resign or not, I think that's up for --

KELLY: But more and more people --

FOWLER: How do you know that?

KELLY: More and more are now saying that he needs to step down.

JACKSON: Absolutely.

KELLY: Do you believe that, Kevin? I mean, or should we let the facts play out?
Have we seen enough?

JACKSON: I believe we have seen enough. Look, first of all, it's a scapegoat
that he fired --

FOWLER: They want the facts -- but they don't know the facts --

JACKSON: Well, look. Okay. But what has he done? Who is in charge of the police
force? The mayor.

FOWLER: And he fires the police --

JACKSON: Instead of taking responsibility for what he did, which is he is the
one who is supposed to assign --

FOWLER: The buck stops with the head of the Police Department.

KELLY: Really? You think the superintendent of the police was the one making the
decision about whether to release the tape and not the mayor?

FOWLER: None of us know that, Megyn. There's nobody in City Hall --

KELLY: You just said the buck stops with the superintendent.

FOWLER: The superintendent is in charge of the police department.

KELLY: Who is his boss?

FOWLER: And the mayor is his boss.

KELLY: Richard --

FOWLER: I'm not -- I think -- I'm not defending Rahm Emanuel at all here. I
think that there is --

JACKSON: But you're defending the principles around Rahm Emanuel --

FOWLER: No, I'm not defending a cover-up.

KELLY: Kevin's position is that that was a window dressing firing because the
mayor is the one ultimately --

JACKSON: That's where the buck stops is with the mayor. You don't want to admit
that but it's Rahm Emanuel. And by the way, it's Rahm Emanuel who is allowed the
level of violence that's occurring in Chicago streets to happen. Not the police
commissioner. If he wants those folks to actually go out and do their jobs, he
can do it.

FOWLER: So, what are you asking for Rahm Emanuel to do here to stop the violence
in Chicago?

JACKSON: I think he should allow the police to do their job.

KELLY: He has invested 40 percent of the city's budget in policing.

FOWLER: That's true.

KELLY: Forty percent.

FOWLER: They have taken more legal guns off the street.

KELLY: What my point is, he has tried.

FOWLER: They have. It's tough.

KELLY: Chicago is a cesspool where, you know, a nine-year-old was just executed
by a gang.

FOWLER: Listen --

KELLY: I got to go. But Chicago has got some major problems despite a lot of
money being poured in.

FOWLER: I agree.

KELLY: Good to see you both.

JACKSON: You too.

KELLY: Also tonight, new cries from some on the Left doubling down on
suggestions that pro-life campaigns contributed to the deadly attack on a
Planned Parenthood clinic. And now, President Obama himself is weighing in.

Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council is here with a reminder
of how the Left reacted when his conservative organization was attacked by a
gunman.

Plus, Carly Fiorina is here to answer her critics in the wake of the deadly
Colorado shooting and suggestions that she may somehow share some of the blame.

Plus, a mother and her son go missing after striking gold in Montana. And now a
month later, police find a disturbing discovery. Mark Eiglarsh and Arthur Aidala
are on this case, just ahead.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We developed a person of interest. That individual moved up
to a higher person of interest. >

(END VIDEO CLIP)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

PRES. BARACK OBAMA (D), UNITED STATES: I say this every time we have one of
these mass shootings. This just doesn't happen in other countries.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: That was President Obama earlier today addressing the deadly shooting at
a Planned Parenthood office in Colorado. It comes amid increase suggestions from
some on the Left that pro-life campaigns contributed to the deadly assault by a
mad man. Earlier today, on the Colorado State House grounds, some advocates for
abortion suggested as much, including one woman who said she had been near the
scene of two shootings, the Planned Parenthood won last week and another in 2007
and both attacks had something in common. Watch.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

LESLIE HEROD (D), COLORADO HOUSE CANDIDATE: Both incidents were perpetrated by
white men who desperately needed mental health services. Both men were fighting
against progressive ideals like choice. Today we call on right wing politicians
across the state and the nation to stop their false attacks on Planned
Parenthood and to apologize for the lies that are directly contributing to the
politically motivated violence in America today. If you are calling women's
healthcare providers evil, you are part of the problem. If you are tweeting,
Planned Parenthood sells baby parts, you are part of the problem.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Joining me now, Family Research Council President Tony Perkins who knows
how it feels to have an organization targeted by a gunman. It happened to his
own group just a couple of years ago in 2012. Tony, do you remember advocates
right up to the president of the United States coming out and calling on people
to tone down the violent rhetoric against causes for which you stand?

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TONY PERKINS, FAMILY RESEARCH COUNCIL PRESIDENT: No. I missed that. You know,
look, nothing justifies this type of violence. Nothing whatsoever. We're very
clear about that. And as a former police officer, I have seen the effects of
violence. And then as you point out, we have experienced it here. But the Left
seems to lose their voice when it's their own people. Just blocks from the White
House this attack happened here, the only case of domestic terrorism --

KELLY: On your group.

PERKINS: Prosecuted in the district. On our group here at the Family Research
Council. But it didn't fit the narrative. We are a well- established Christian
organization. It was a liberal activist who came in with 100 rounds of
ammunition, 15 Chick-Fil-A sandwiches. Motivated, inspired by the Southern
Poverty Law Center in a city that has some of the strictest gun control laws in
the nation. Didn't fit the narrative. And so, the President didn't say a word
about it. Didn't even call for stricter gun control laws. He was silent.

KELLY: Uh-hm. And now he is very concerned about the rhetoric that we use in
discussing this choice issue. And you heard him there saying, don't demonize
Planned Parenthood. I mean, I ask you whether you think the President is in any
position to tell the American people whether they should be demonizing Planned
Parenthood or not.

PERKINS: Well, Megyn, I do think we need to be introspective. And we have
occasions like this, and we need to look at are our words, our actions inciting
violence on intentionally or intentionally? And we do need to have civil
discussion over these things. But what we're talking about here are facts.
People talking about undercover videos that have revealed Planned Parenthood has
been trafficking in baby body parties. The Congress is investigating it. There's
enough there that Congress is looking into it. Having a discussion about that is
not inciting violence, nor is it demonizing an organization. It's fact.

KELLY: But you heard that woman. You are to blame. She said if you say that, you
know, baby parts, you are part of the problem. And that there need to be an end
to the politically motivated vitriol. But the question is, is it just the
politically motivated vitriol that is heard from some corners on the Right or do
they feel the same about the Left?

PERKINS: No, I think it's just on the Right. But look, we need to be careful on
what we say. However, we cannot surrender our right to speak the truth because
of political correctness. Just because something offends the moral conscience
because it's wrong doesn't mean we cannot say it and have a discussion about it.
And I think we need to have a civil but very candid and honest discussion about
what our tax dollars are funding in this country. And that is clearly within the
realm of citizens of this country to discuss.

KELLY: Uh-hm. Tony, thank you for being here.

PERKINS: Thanks, Megyn.

KELLY: Got some facial hair now. Haven't seen that on him before. That was new.
Coming up next, Republican presidential condition Carly Fiorina who is also
taking heat from some on the Left who are claiming that her criticism of Planned
Parenthood at that presidential debate may have helped trigger this attack.
Tonight, she will respond to those claims.

Plus, did you hear what Senator Ted Cruz today said about Donald Trump and
Trump's presidential campaign? Marc Thiessen and former Obama White House Press
Secretary Bill Burton on what is looking like the start of a new phase in the
GOP race.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Let me be very clear. I don't
believe Donald Trump is going to be our nominee. I don't believe he's going to
be our president.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Breaking tonight, Republican candidate Carly Fiorina is under fire for
what some are calling angry rhetoric about Planned Parenthood. The controversy
that raged around the abortion and healthcare provider over the summer led to
talk to fetuses and babies being harvested for their organs. That was the
terminology. Rhetoric that some say may have contributed to triggering a man who
is deeply disturbed and had some dark intentions.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CHRIS MATTHEW, MSNBC HOST: Let the liberal media blame the bad guy and the
enemies of Planned Parenthood first and then attack. Don't go first. Because
when you go first, you make people think like this guy, that you are enjoying
it, like Carly Fiorina seems to be.

CAROL COSTELLO, CNN ANCHOR: It was Carly Fiorina who said falsely that Planned
Parenthood was guilty of harvesting a live baby's organs. So, is it this kind of
rhetoric that's fueling this mentally unbalanced people to act?

DAWN LAGUENS, EVP, PLANNED PARENTHOOD ACTION FUND: The gunman is now quoted as
having said, almost exactly something similar to what Carly Fiorina just said.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Joining me now, Republican presidential candidate and former CEO of
Hewlett Packard, Carly Fiorina. Carly, thank you for being here tonight. So,
your reaction to that? I mean, among other things online, some on the left are
calling you and I quote, "A psychopath because of your words about Planned
Parenthood."

CARLY FIORINA (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Well, you see, Megyn, this is what
the Left wing does. They demonize the messenger when they cannot take the
message. I haven't used hyperbolic rhetoric about Planned Parenthood. I have
spoken the truth. And I will continue to speak the truth. It's funny but I don't
recall President Obama being concerned about the rhetoric when people were
chanting death to the pigs and we fry pigs like bacon. I don't recall President
Obama being concerned about the tone of the rhetoric when he compared
Republicans who objected to his very bad deal with Iran as the hardliners like
the Mullahs chanting "Death to America." You see the Left wing only gets
concerned about rhetoric when they don't like the message. And they try to
demonize the messenger.

KELLY: So, the question is, they seem to be focused on you in particular because
of the claim you made at the CNN debate about what you said you had seen on
these undercover Planned Parenthood videos. And you claimed that you had seen a
baby being harvested -- a live baby having its organs harvested, being kept
alive so its organs should be harvested. But it wasn't actually established that
that is something Planned Parenthood had done. And it wasn't clear what happened
with the baby being shown in that video. So, in other words, there was no proof
that Planned Parenthood did what you said. That's why they are where they are
with you.

FIORINA: No, actually Megyn, the reason they are where they are with me is
because I'm Hillary Clinton's worst nightmare. Because I am a conservative woman
who stands up for life. Because I am a conservative woman who can effectively
combat the line from the Left about the war on women. And of course, we also
know that Planned Parenthood has now admitted they have said, we're not going to
take compensation anymore for fetal tissue as they call it. Most common sense
people would call it body parts. We won't tell compensation anymore for this.
So, obviously, they have been doing it. And as I remind --

KELLY: There's a difference -- I get this. I made this point yesterday --

FIORINA: Why is it -- why is it that a taxpayer is funding an organization --

KELLY: I get that. That's something the country has been debating for a long
time.

FIORINA: Millions of dollars.

KELLY: I get that but the question to you --

FIORINA: We haven't been debating it, Megyn. We haven't been debating it,
actually.

KELLY: Listen. I'm just trying to get an answer to my question which you, the
reason they're taking issue with you -- and, you know, Donald Trump is getting
-- gets in a lot of trouble for not walking back things he said that are not
true or that are to be charitable to him, a mistake. So, the thing they are
going after with you is the suggestion that Planned Parenthood harvested organs
from live babies.

FIORINA: No, Megyn. What I said -- what I said was that there were videotapes
where Planned Parenthood individuals, employees are talking about harvesting
baby parties. What I also said is that there are images of fetuses that are born
alive. Both of those things are demonstrably true. They are not taking issue
with me because I have made false statements. They are not taking issue with me
because of the videos. In fact, most of the liberal critics of me and other
pro-life advocates have never watched these videos. They are taking issue
because they do not like the message.

KELLY: Uh-hm.

FIORINA: And this messenger will not be silenced.

KELLY: Well, one of the things that they don't want to be discussing is, you
know, that the Planned Parenthood -- they are now saying this Planned Parenthood
videos have been debunked, that they have been discredited, that they were
somehow manipulated I suppose. I just want to show the audience because time has
passed. This is what got people so upset about these videos. These are two
examples. Watch.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Exactly. So then you're just kind of cognizant of where you
put your graspers, you try to intentionally go above and below the thorax, so
that, you know, we've been very good at getting heart, lung, liver, because we
know that, so I am not going to crush that part, I'm going to basically crush
above, and I'm going to see if I can get it all intact.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: If we want to pursue this mutually I'll mention this to Ian
in terms of how he feels about using a less crunchy technique to get more
specimens.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Do you ever feel like the outrage is saved up for people like you who
have sincerely held beliefs, even if they don't believe with them, agree with
them. It's saved up for people like you who spouse them as opposed to trying to
understand why about half the country has a real problem if not with the
abortion procedure, which does stop a beating heart, then with the callousness
with which those women discussed it, which was so bad the president of Planned
Parenthood had to come out and apologize for it.

FIORINA: Yes. Well, isn't that the case? And isn't it also true if you look at
every pole, what you will find is the majority of women, the majority of young
people, the majority of Americans now believe that abortion for any reason at
all after five months is wrong. So, I will call on the Senate once again to pass
the pain capable unborn child protection act. And I will ask all Americans who
are wondering what this outrage is about to examine what the Left wing's policy
on abortion is. And here is their policy. Here is their platform. It is not a
life until it is born. Most Americans disagree with that.

KELLY: Carly Fiorina, thank you.

FIORINA: Thanks, Megyn.

KELLY: Well, just ahead, what Senator Ted Cruz and Donald Trump just said on the
campaign trail that may signal a big change in this campaign.

Plus, newly released e-mails raising new questions about Hillary Clinton's head
injury and how her staff was describing it behind the scenes. Marc Thiessen and
former Obama White House Press Secretary Bill Burton are here on those
developing stories.

Plus, new problems on day two of jury selection for the first of six officers
charged in the death of Freddie Gray. Will the cops be able to get a fair trial
in Baltimore? Our legal panel is here.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MARILYN MOSBY, STATE'S ATTORNEY FOR BALTIMORE: To the people of Baltimore and
the demonstrators across America, I heard your call for no justice, no peace.
Your peace is sincerely needed as I work to deliver justice on behalf of this
young man.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Developing tonight, two big stories involving the White House
frontrunners from both sides of the aisle. New release e-mails from Hillary
Clinton's private server, raising new questions over her health. Back in
December 2012, Mrs. Clinton suffered a serious concussion, and now we see an
e-mail from a month later. Critics say it shows Mrs. Clinton was confused. She
wrote to a top agency official, quote, "The Brits have just called for their
citizens to leave Somalia. What's our position?" The response, "We have a long
time published travel warning against all travel to Somalia. It was updated last
month." Plus, a possible war of words starting tonight between Donald Trump and
the GOP candidate who is rising in the polls, Senator Ted Cruz.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TED CRUZ, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I don't think it's good advice for us to get
in the business of blasting each other. Now I do think -- let me be very clear,
I don't believe Donald Trump is going to our nominee. I don't believe he is
going to be our president.

DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: There's one way to get to the top, and
it's all through Trump. Let's face it. Even I think Cruz is going to have to hit
me, because you know, he's a nice guy. It's going to be a sad day, but we will
hit back, I promise.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Marc Thiessen is a Fox News contributor and a former speechwriter to
President George W. Bush. Bill Burton is a former White House press secretary
for President Obama deputy. OK, great to see you both. So let's just start with
Hillary Clinton. Marc, what exactly is the issue? We know she had a concussion,
so what is the issue raised by the e- mails?

MARC THIESSEN, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Yeah, it's not so much that she had a
concussion and whether she is fit for the office, it's that she misled the
American people about her condition. I mean, on January 7, State Department
spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said when she came back to work, that Clinton was
fully recovered. Nineteen days later, we now have an e- mail from her closest
aide, Huma Abedin, confiding to another Clinton aide that Hillary was often
confused on the job. And this comes on the heels of -- I mean, you can't be
both. You can't be fully recovered or often confused. It's one or the other. And
Bill Clinton revealed earlier this year, that it took her six months to recover,
it really hard work to recover from this concussion. She came back on the job
one month after the concussion. So the issue isn't so much whether she has a
traumatic brain injury or that she's not fit for the office because of her
health. It's another example of Hillary Clinton misleading the American people
about it, in this case, about her health.

KELLY: I am in perfectly good health and often confused. I mean.

(LAUGHTER)

KELLY: I'm not sure that the case has been made, Bill.

(LAUGHTER)

BILL BURTON, FORMER OBAMA WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: You know, I think that --
I just think listening to Marc, who I sometimes even agree with, that if you
look at this controversy, it shows the state of the whole e-mail situation. If
this is the best they can do, pull out an e-mail from an aide, saying that their
boss is often confused, I think it would be hard pressed to find a boss across
America whose aides don't say that they are often confused about something or
another. And this is a woman who is running one of the most important cabinet --
has one of the most important cabinet positions in the entire country, so of
course, she's got a lot in her head. And of course, she's not going to know
every single travel warning that goes out about every single country in the
world. But you know, I think that you will see whether or not Hillary Clinton is
confused when you see her on the stage debating other republican.

KELLY: All right. Let me -- when we talk about Hillary Clinton, let me ask you,
she's coming out with a new ad, and I think it's fair to say is playing the
gender card pretty explicitly. Watch part of it.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Dear Mrs. Clinton. My name is Scout and I'm 9- years-old.
I'm so excited you have a chance to become the first woman president. Because
from George Washington to Barack Obama, it's ridiculous, that there has never
been a female president before, 44 boys are too many.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Forty-four boys are too many, Marc, so -- let me start with you on this
Bill, actually. Can you imagine President Obama when he was then Senator Obama
doing this with race?

BURTON: Well, I think it's indisputable that it would be a big deal for both
little girls and little boys to see a woman president of the United States.

KELLY: Right.

BURTON: I will say that little girl's math is wrong, though, because there are
only been presidents.

KELLY: Right.

BURTON: Once or twice, this is why President Obama is 44. Set aside.

KELLY: Stupid kid.

BURTON: Attacking little girls.

(LAUGHTER)

BURTON: But, no, look, it is a big deal if Hillary Clinton is elected president.

KELLY: Of course it is. It was a big deal we have black president and your
former boss. And you know, you can imagine saying 43 whites is too many?

(LAUGHTER)

KELLY: That's why I what to know.

BURTON: It's hard to respond to. It's hard to respond to you, but the truth is,
it is kind of too bad that there have been 43 presidents that haven't been
women.

(CROSSTALK)

KELLY: You tell me Marc whether -- we know she's a woman. We all know she would
be busting that ceiling.

THIESSEN: Yeah, you know, actually, I was shocked by the news, that Hillary
Clinton would actually be the first woman president. She hasn't mentioned that
before. I have never heard her say this. This is breaking news. We can do the
Fox Alert. Hillary Clinton would be the first woman president.

KELLY: All right.

THIESSEN: Maybe, maybe, that might be a theme of her campaign if you think about
it.

KELLY: Let me give you a review to Ted Cruz and Donald Trump. I don't know if
officially the bromance is over, Marc, but Cruz for the first time is saying,
"Mr. Trump is not going to be the president. He's not gonna be the nominee." And
this is -- this come as he is rising in the polls in Iowa -- coincidence?

THIESSEN: No, not a coincidence. But I don't think we will have a full-fledged
food fight. I mean, it think what Ted Cruz has been running a brilliant
political campaign. I mean, he is -- he has stayed under the radar. He stayed
out of the food fights. He hasn't attacked Trump. He's slowing been building his
base. He's been courted the evangelical vote, and while not attacking Donald
Trump. And I think he feels that he is the candidate who is in now, he is in
third place. Tied for third place nationally, tied for first in Iowa. I mean its
working. And he is the candidate who is most natural to pick up the Trump voters
-- supporters who might defect from him, because he hasn't attacked Trump,
agrees with him on the issues and also can claim to be an outsider who is hated
by the GOP establishment, and also his position to pick up Ben Carson supporters
because there are most the evangelical. So he is the guy most likely to pick up
anyone falling away from the two frontrunners. That puts him in a really strong
position.

KELLY: Bill, do you think there -- you know, obviously, you are against all
these guys. But do you think there's a realistic nomination that Ted Cruz could
become the GOP nominee?

BURTON: I've actually thought for a long time that there's a path for Ted Cruz,
which I think is pretty good news for democrats, because I think that what Marc
is saying is right. I think that he picks up folks who decide that Carson isn't
ready for the job and that Trump is not serious enough, the guy for the job. And
for the first -- the breaking news today is that for the first time, I actually
agree with Ted Cruz. Donald Trump is not going to be the nominee.

(LAUGHTER)

KELLY: OK, but let me ask about you that. Why do you think that? Because he is,
you know, he is leading in all the polls, and today, we had reports of the GOP
establishment is now going to say, "All right, we got to do something about this
guy."

BURTON: Well, I -- you know, my --the first -- you can look at the maps state by
state and see like where is Trump going to win, that he may be up now, but you
know, the polls in November and December are not exactly indicative of where
they will gonna be in January, February and March. But secondly, just look at
American history. Never in the history of our country has a major political
party picked someone like Donald Trump to be the head of their party, someone
who doesn't have any relevant experience, someone who is the most hot-tempered
kind of a jerk candidate in the race. Americans actually are used to picking
mostly nice guys to be the nominee in their party, Richard Nixon excluded.

(LAUGHTER)

BURTON: But besides that, I just don't.

(CROSSTALK)

KELLY: You always get one in, doesn't you always get one in, Marc. All right, I
got to leave it at that, great to see you both.

THIESSEN: Thanks, Megyn.

BURTON: You too, Megyn.

KELLY: Well, it's one of America's favorites `80s movies. So why is Sixteen
Candles now being targeted by some suggestions that it should never be shown
again, because it's offensive to basically, every minority group on earth.

Plus, investigators in rural Montana name a person of high interest a month
after an elderly woman and her son strike a small fortune and vanish without a
trace.

And then, no sooner do the voters get done electing a new mayor in Alaska
capital city. Then he is found dead in mysterious circumstances.

Mark Eiglarsh and Arthur Aidala, tackle these cases along with the latest in the
case of the Baltimore six, right after this break.

KELLY: Developing tonight, a dark mystery out of Montana, where police now say
they have a person of interest in the disappearance of an elderly woman and her
son. Just days after the pair came into possession of a gold bar worth nearly
half a million dollars. Listen to this. Mark Eiglarsh is a criminal defense
attorney and former prosecutor. Arthur Aidala is a New York trial attorney and a
Fox News legal analyst, good to see you both. So Mark, the old -- the elderly --
how old was she? Are we saying she's 79?

MARK EIGLARSH, CRIMINAL DEFENSE ATTORNEY: Seventy --

KELLY: Seventy-nine.

EIGLARSH: Seventy-nine.

KELLY: Whenever we use that term, we get e-mails from a 79-year-old or whatever,
the age is saying, "I resent that" in any event.

EIGLARSH: Right.

KELLY: How -- where did she get the gold bar from?

EIGLARSH: It was found by a cleaning woman in a home that was being remodeled.
She used to live there and planned on moving back into the home after the
remodeling. The bar belonged to her ex-late husband valued at just under
$500,000.

KELLY: So just after she gets it, she turns up dead, Arthur, in a town where
they say.

EIGLARSH: And days later.

KELLY: The median income in this town is around $30,000. The population is about
3,000 people, and her son is dead as well. And now what do we know about the
person of, quote, "high interest?"

ARTHUR AIDALA, FOX NEWS LEGAL ANALYST: Well, first of all, just from a legal of
point of view. In the world that Mark and I live in, you are not allowed to hold
somebody on an investigative hold. So they have someone who is in jail who is
not charged with a crime. They just don't want him to go anywhere while they are
figuring this out.

KELLY: This is him?

AIDALA: This is him. He lives in the same town where the house was. And they are
basically -- I'm sure, forensic evidence is all over the place.

EIGLARSH: Can I say something about him, Megyn?

KELLY: Yeah, go ahead.

EIGLARSH: His criminal career -- again, he is innocent until proven guilty, but
his criminal career dates back to Reagan's assassination attempt, 1981. He
picked his fist bell (ph) fell and he for burglary that he picked up aggravated
kidnapping along the way, aggravated assault. He's got a nice record -- yeah.

KELLY: And the day that she was last seen, she was seen having lunch with a
white man believed to be about 60-years-old, you know right before.

AIDALA: But she was crazy facts in the case. Hard -- her house was abandoned,
but the son's house that is also deceased. When a police went there, there was
food still warm on the stove. And the house seemed to have been burglarized.
There's a lot more to come in this story.

KELLY: All right, there's another mystery developing out of Juneau, Alaska where
the newly elected mayor is dead. And now they are looking into (inaudible) ruled
out suicide, but they haven't ruled out foul play.

EIGLARSH: Yeah, they are keeping the facts close to the vest. The son came in to
visit the father and finds the body there. He had won handily over the
incumbent, just a month earlier, and now the Juneau Police Department are
investigating, but they don't want to give away too much.

KELLY: Arthur, they say that there were injuries on his body, but they're ruling
out suicide. So what does that tell us?

AIDALA: Well, it's either an assault, right? I mean, in the world of politics we
live in, who knows what kind of deals were cut or weren't cut, and that's like
the evil way of looking at it. The innocuous way of looking at it, (inaudible),
he had a heart attack or a stroke and he fell and banged his head really hard on
the table before -- you know, be dying of natural causes. That autopsy is going
to be the key, you know, she get Dr. Button (ph) right here to come in and tell
us what they find here.

KELLY: Absolutely right. OK, quick update in the Baltimore six case. The first
officer is on trial. Officer Porter, he's the one who stopped and saw Freddie
Gray on the fourth of fifth stops, and the charge against him, Mark is
basically, based on the fact that he didn't get anybody help.

EIGLARSH: Right.

KELLY: He didn't get Freddie Gray help. What happened in Jury's selection today?

EIGLARSH: Something that really troubles me, Megyn. I said months ago, the
minute the city settled six point whatever million dollars, the civil suit, they
will gonna have to tell jurors, and they are. There are some jurors who didn't
know about it. And now they know, and the judge, of course is saying, "Erase,
erase, erase." But their thinking the city paid out all this money because the
conduct was innocent? No. The presumption now is they have done something wrong
and I have a problem with that.

KELLY: So there was one person who was unaware of the.

(CROSSTALK)

KELLY: One person.

AIDALA: Yes. Everyone else knew about it.

KELLY: Everyone there knows Freddie Gray.

EIGLARSH: Right.

KELLY: They know the case. They know the city paid $6 million, Arthur. And on
top of that, yesterday, there was, like, 33 percent of the jury pool stood up
and said that they had been victims of a crime or they committed a crime or they
knew somebody who committed a crime. And then today, the numbers are even
bigger. It was 46 people out of 75 percent pool said, yeah --

(CROSSTALK)

KELLY: Very related to crime, you know victim of or perpetrator of.

AIDALA: I use -- look, I use this analogy all the time. I'm very glad they are
taking this much time and putting this much effort into jury selection, three
days. I don't have a lot of respect for judges who say, I will pick a jury in
two hours. That does nothing for me. A defendant and a prosecutor have a right
to know who is gonna hear the evidence.

KELLY: How do you get -- of course, of course, of course.

EIGLARSH: Three days.

KELLY: But how do you get past.

EIGLARSH: Three days, I must say.

KELLY: They all say, "I can be fair." Because now.

(CROSSTALK)

KELLY: When I'm on a jury pool, I say, I cannot be fair. I have to get back to
work.

(LAUGHTER)

KELLY: But they, but they -I can be fair.

EIGLARSH: Arthur and I disagree on this Megyn.

KELLY: Well, how though?

EIGLARSH: Arthur thinks that -- Arthur, I said you got to move this. Arthur
said, "Well, they are gonna be unfair anywhere." I say, in that town, with a
curfew adversely affected them. Where there are protesters everywhere.

KELLY: Including outside of the courtroom now.

AIDALA: Right.

EIGLARSH: Of course.

AIDALA: But at least you get to.

EIGLARSH: You got move, Arthur.

AIDALA: At least you get to question them, Megyn. At least, as a lawyer, one on
one, you are questioning the juror.

EIGLARSH: Of course you're questioning, Arthur.

AIDALA: And you know what you are using, Megyn, your God-given common sense.
That's what makes Mark a great lawyer. That's what makes trial lawyers.

EIGLARSH: God bless you, Arthur.

AIDALA: Great lawyer is using your instincts to say, this one is giving me the
wink, or this one is being genuine when they say.

KELLY: What are you holding up, Mark? What is that?

AIDALA: What are you doing, buddy? Come on.

EIGLARSH: Arthur, come on.

(LAUGHTER)

EIGLARSH: Come on buddy.

(LAUGHTER)

(CROSSTALK)

KELLY: He wanted to end it with a nice note.

EIGLARSH: I think I won this one.

(CROSSTALK)

KELLY: And I too, I too want to say happy birthday to you, Arthur Aidala.

AIDALA: Yeah.

KELLY: And but -- but you raise a question of judgment.

(LAUGHTER)

KELLY: You raise a question of judgment and the person's instincts.

(LAUGHTER)

KELLY: Can the viewers at home find Arthur?

(LAUGHTER)

KELLY: Which one is Arthur?

AIDALA: Oh, did my father give you that?

EIGLARSH: Oh no.

KELLY: Explain this.

AIDALA: That's 19 --

(CROSSTALK)

KELLY: I'm not going to disclose my source. It's horrible.

AIDALA: It's Miss Marylou's new school of dance. I was the only boy in a
300-girl dancing school. And my buddies thought it was weird.

EIGLARSH: Megyn.

AIDALA: But I was going through puberty and I thought it was the greatest place
to be in the world.

KELLY: All right, one more. One more before we go, show it. Let's see.

AIDALA: Crazy. Rapid Post -- that was my band in front of (inaudible).

KELLY: Show the other one. Show the other one -- put the other one up of a
little Arthur, it's the best.

AIDALA: Me and my best friend Chris (inaudible).

KELLY: I got to go. Happy Birthday, We love you.

AIDALA: Thank you, that was adorable.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MOLLY RINGWALD, ACTRESS: Since I was 12 I've been looking forward to my sweet
sixteen. You know a big party and a band, tons of people.

JOAN CUSACK, ACTRESS: Tons of people. And a big Trans Am in the driveway with a
ribbon around it. And some incredibly gorgeous guy that you meet in France and
you do it on a cloud without getting pregnant or herpes.

RINGWALD: I don't need the cloud.

CUSACK: Just a pink Trans Am and the guy, right?

RINGWALD: A black one.

CUSACK: A black guy?

RINGWALD: A black Trans Am, a pink guy.

(Bell ringing)

RINGWALD: Oh no.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Who can forget the '80s classic Sixteen Candles? Remember the joy you
felt when Sam finally got together with the dreamy Jake Ryan? We all wanted to
be here. Well, in the eyes of at least one film critic, this iconic movie is
really about racism and date rape and you ought to be ashamed. Trace Gallagher
has the story, Trace?

TRACE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Megyn, Sara Stewart, who wrote the article for
our New York -- The New York Post, her cousin publication says Sixteen Candles
was among her favorites when she was young, but now she feels repulsed by it.
Arguing the film celebrates racism and date rape writing, quote, "The racism and
sexism in Hughes -- John Hughes movie is so over the top, I have to hope any
teens watching it today would view it as a shocking old-tiny artifact." But even
at the time, Asian-American groups protested scenes involving Gedde Watanabe who
played Chinese foreign exchange student, Long Duk Dong. For the record, Watanabe
is actually Japanese. Stewart also talks issue with the scene where Molly
Ringwald's character talks to a girlfriend that you saw, about finding the
perfect boy. And this scene involving a drunken girl passed out in a car. Watch.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Will you take the picture already? You're pissing me off, I'm
telling you -- smile, pumpkin.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What? Oh, pictures. Cheers!

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GALLAGHER: By the way, in a rebuttal article the conservative NewsBusters
Melissa Mullins calls Sara Stewart a humorless lefty - Megyn.

KELLY: Trace, thank you. We'll be right back with more of Arthur (inaudible).

KELLY: And now as our closing gift, we give you little Arthur Aidala. He's all
grown up, ladies and gentlemen.

(LAUGHTER)

AIDALA: Can I dance?

KELLY: Go for it.

AIDALA: Like one, two, three, four --

(LAUGHTER)

AIDALA: Shuffling off to buffalo.

(APPLAUSE)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120101cb.251

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            December 1, 2015 Tuesday

                         SHOW: FOX HANNITY 10:00 PM EST

Interview With 2016 GOP Presidential Candidate Sen. Ted Cruz; Interview With
Former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich

BYLINE: Sean Hannity, Geraldo Rivera

GUESTS: Sen. Ted Cruz, Newt Gingrich, Herman Cain, Marc Morano

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 6987  words


(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

SEAN HANNITY, HOST (voice-over): Tonight, with two months to go until Iowa,
Senator Ted Cruz is surging in the polls...

SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Wow!

HANNITY: ... and now coming under attack from his GOP rivals.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Ted Cruz has made America less safe.

GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE (R-NJ), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Sure, he has. He went for
the easy political vote.

HANNITY: Senator Ted Cruz is here tonight to respond.

And Herman Cain shows up at a Donald Trump rally after being criticized by Jeb
Bush.

HERMAN CAIN (R), FMR. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: You have a lot of people in the
media

HANNITY: Mr. Cain will be here tonight.

And later a new documentary calling out global warming alarmists. All of that,
plus Newt Gingrich will be here with reaction.

"Hannity" starts right here, right now.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

HANNITY: And welcome to "Hannity." And we are just two months away from the Iowa
caucuses, and 2016 Republican presidential candidate Senator Ted Cruz is now
surging in the polls. Now, in the latest Quinnipiac Iowa poll, Donald Trump is
in first place with 25 percent of the vote, Ted Cruz not far behind with 23
percent.

And in the very important state of New Hampshire, Cruz is now tied with Dr. Ben
Carson for third at 10 percent, with Trump and Marco Rubio now taking the top
two spots. And according to the latest FOX News national poll, Ted Cruz is now
tied for third. He has 14 percent.

Now, the steady rise in the polls has made Senator Cruz a target for attacks
from some of his Republican rivals. Take a look.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Doesn't Marco and Barack Obama share a similar biography?

GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE (R-NJ), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: As do Ted Cruz and others in
this race who have no experience in governing.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And Ted Cruz's position and Rand Paul's position on
collecting metadata made America less safe?

CHRISTIE: Yes. And I said it at...

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So Ted Cruz has made America less safe.

CHRISTIE: Sure, he has. He went for the easy political vote at a time when, you
know, it looked like it was kind of a popular thing to do. With all those dead
Parisians, it doesn't look so popular anymore.

SEN. MARCO RUBIO (R-FL), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I stand strongly on behalf of
the ability of this government to gather intelligence on our adversaries and our
enemies, especially terrorists, but other nation- states. Those keep us safer.
And there are Republicans, including Senator Cruz, that have voted to weaken
those programs. It's just a part of the record. It's nothing personal.

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I think Cruz is going to have to hit
me because -- you know, he's a nice guy. He's been so -- everything I said, he
supported, every single thing I said. And he's been so supportive. But at some
point, he's going to have to hit me, right? It's going to be a sad day, but we
will hit back, I promise.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: All right, here with reaction, 2016 Republican presidential candidate
Texas senator Ted Cruz. Are you planning on getting in a fight with Trump? Is
that a preview of coming attractions, pay-per-view? What's going to happen?

SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: You know, we are focused on what
we've been doing from day one of this campaign, which is building a conservative
army on the grass roots. And what's so encouraging -- listen, the reason why
people are throwing rocks and we're taking shots from all directions is because
the energy momentum we've got, Sean, is incredible.

You know, I just got back from a three-day barnstorming tour through Iowa. We
went to 16 counties in three days, had standing room only crowds everywhere we
went. And so it's understandable that other candidates are getting nervous about
that and are wanting to launch attacks.

We're going to keep focused on my positive, optimistic conservative message. And
people are tired of campaign conservatives. They want someone who's got a proven
record. I think that's why conservatives are uniting behind our campaign.

HANNITY: All right, let's talk a little bit -- you even are now ahead of Hillary
Clinton in some head-to-head matchups. That's happening. The media seems very
focused on the battle that has emerged between you and Senator Rubio. You have
gone after Senator Rubio on the issue of immigration. You talked about his
foreign policy as him being a proponent of military adventurism, that you said
he has benefited from Islamic militant groups. What did you mean by that?

CRUZ: Well, you know, if you look at Senator Rubio's record -- he's someone who
I like personally. He's a friend of mine. He is a very, very charming and
effective communicator.

But if you look at his policy record, there's a big difference between his
record and mine. You started out asking about amnesty. That may be the simplest
and clearest record. As you know, back in 2013 when President Obama and Chuck
Schumer joined with establishment Republicans in passing -- in pushing a massive
amnesty plan, Senator Rubio led that fight. He stood right there alongside with
Barack Obama and Chuck Schumer. Indeed, it was the Rubio/Schumer amnesty plan.

And I made a very different decision. I stood alongside Jeff Sessions and Steve
King and fought against amnesty and to secure the border. And we ended up
defeating the Rubio/Schumer amnesty plan. Now, that's a real policy difference
that I think Republican primary voters are quite interested in.

HANNITY: You know, one of the things that comes up -- especially when you get
close to the caucuses, the primaries, things get more heated, naturally. I've
watched too many of these cycles. Then Republicans talk about the 11th
commandment. Tell us where that balance is.

CRUZ: Well, the balance -- as you know, throughout this campaign, I have
declined to respond when other candidates have attacked me personally. They
engage in the food fights. You know, first couple of debates, there were a lot
of just nasty ad hominem insults. And I'm not interested in playing that game.
If others insult me, I won't respond in kind.

Now, there's a difference between that and a substantive policy disagreement. I
do think politics is and should be -- the bread and butter of it should be
policy differences. And so it is perfectly appropriate to lay out, as I have
over and over again, that on the issue of amnesty, a majority of the candidates
on that debate stage have publicly supported amnesty, and that I am the only
candidate on that debate stage who has never supported amnesty and who led the
fight successfully to defeat amnesty when it was before the Congress.

HANNITY: The two big differences are -- that you're pointing out is on
immigration. He's attacking you on the USA Freedom Act reforms. I want to give
you a chance to respond.

CRUZ: Well, sure. You know, Marco -- a PAC that is supporting Marco has bought
about $200,000 of attack ads in Iowa. And these attack ads are false, and Marco
knows they're false. What -- he's trying to suggest somehow that I'm responsible
for the terrorist attack in Paris. And it's silly. And it's the natural thing
that a campaign does when they're nervous, when they see conservatives uniting
behind our campaign.

Now, what I did is I joined with my good friend and strong conservative senator,
Mike Lee. I joined with a ton of conservatives in the House in passing the USA
Freedom Act. And what the USA Freedom Act did was two things. Number one, it
ended the federal government's bulk collection of phone metadata. It ended the
federal government having your cellphone information and my cellphone
information.

And I think we've got to respect the Bill of Rights and the rights of
law-abiding citizens. But number two, the USA Freedom Act strengthened the tools
to go after actual terrorists, to target the bad guys, to get their cellphones,
their e-mails. That's the way the Bill of Rights works.

And you know, Marco knows that, but at the end of the day, the position that
he's advocating is he thinks we'd be safer if the federal government sees your
phone records and mine. I don't think that's right.

And at the end of the day, the intelligence agencies told Congress the USA
Freedom Act expanded their ability to target the bad guys. And yet, Marco's...

HANNITY: All right, let me ask you this...

CRUZ: The super-PAC supporting Marco doesn't want to acknowledge that.

HANNITY: You know, we see what happened in Paris, and the president actually
said that those types of attacks only happen in America. Perhaps he forget what
just happened and forgot Charlie Hebdo.

CRUZ: Yes.

HANNITY: But you know, during a joint press conference with President Hollande,
he actually said, the president, that this climate change summit will be a
rebuke to terrorists. He also said there's no tougher issue that he can think of
than climate change. Let me play part of this.

CRUZ: Yes.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Next week, I will be joining
President Hollande and world leaders in Paris for the global climate conference.
What a powerful rebuke to the terrorists it will be when the world stands as one
and shows that we will not be deterred from building a better future for our
children.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: Don't you think radical Islam and mullahs in Iran getting nuclear
weapons and the economy and $20 trillion in debt is a bigger problem than
climate change, which keeps changing from global cooling and the ice age coming
to the planet blowing up with heat, to now just a neutral climate change for
everything that they don't like?

CRUZ: Well, Sean, of course, it is. And you know, that statement -- it's gotten
to the point now where President Obama -- "Saturday Night Live" can't even make
fun of him anymore because he says the most ridiculous things. This is a
president who thinks the SUV in your driveway is a greater threat to this
country than radical Islamic terrorists. In fact, he's not even willing to utter
the words "radical Islamic terrorism."

And we need a president who will stand up and defeat ISIS, utterly destroy ISIS.
And you know, there was another exchange that just occurred recently, where
President Obama was telling Erdogan in Turkey, You need to secure your border
with Syria. And Erdogan responded, Well, why don't you secure your southern
border first before you try to lecture me?

And I go to say, maybe for once in the history of all time, I agree with Erdogan
on that, that President Obama is allowing an enormous security vulnerability of
this country by not securing the southern border. And that's why I've been
leading a fight to secure the southern border.

And I'll tell you, Sean, if I am elected president, we will secure our borders.
We will keep this country safe from terrorists. We will not be allowing in tens
of thousands of Syrian Muslim refugees. Our top priority...

HANNITY: Well, do you...

CRUZ: ... will be the safety and security of American citizens!

HANNITY: Did you hear Marine general Joseph Dunford, the chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, saying we have not contained ISIS? By the way, even Dianne
Feinstein said it. The president said they were contained the day before --
hours before the Paris attacks.

Not only did he say they're not contained, but they're growing. So how could the
president be so wrong and Dianne Feinstein and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs
saying something totally different?

CRUZ: Because it's out-of-control political correctness. They don't acknowledge
that the problem even exists. I mean, when the president stands up and says the
Islamic state isn't Islamic -- look, that's just nutty. I mean, that's not even
-- school children can figure that out.

They've declared their intention to create an Islamic caliphate and to forcibly
convert or murder any infidels that don't adopt their radical Islamism.

HANNITY: Right.

CRUZ: And because the president won't acknowledge it -- as he put it, he doesn't
believe in American leadership or America winning. He doesn't have time for
that. I got to say, FDR and JFK and Ronald Reagan were spinning in their graves
to hear a president say he doesn't believe in American leadership or America
winning!

HANNITY: All right, we're going to take a break. We'll have more with Senator
Ted Cruz right after the break.

Also tonight, former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich -- he'll be here to
weigh in on the latest shake-ups in the 2016 GOP field.

Also tonight, Jeb Bush compares Herman Cain's 2012 campaign to Donald Trump's
current White House run. Well, Herman Cain will be here to respond. That and
more on this busy news night tonight on "Hannity."

(NEWSBREAK)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HILLARY CLINTON (D-NY), FMR. SEC. OF STATE, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I agree with
the president's point that we're not putting American combat troops back into
Syria or Iraq. We are not going to do that. This...

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Under no circumstances would you not (sic) do that?

CLINTON: Well -- at this point, I cannot conceive of any circumstances where I
would agree to do that. We don't know yet how many special forces might be
needed, how many trainers and surveillance and enablers might be needed.

But in terms of thousands of combat troops, like some on the Republican side are
recommending, I think that should be a non-starter. And it should be a
non-starter both because I don't think it's the smartest way to go after ISIS, I
think it gives ISIS a new recruitment tool.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: Welcome back to "Hannity." And we continue with 2016 Republican
presidential candidate Senator Ted Cruz. You just heard Hillary Clinton
basically agree with Barack Obama, who said American leadership isn't just about
U.S. ground troops fighting is. Can we defeat ISIS without ground troops, the
way they're discussing?

CRUZ: Well, it is abundantly clear that Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton can't
defeat ISIS because they have no intention of even trying. They won't even
acknowledge the enemy. I mean, Hillary Clinton at the last Democratic debate
went out of her way to refuse to say the words "radical Islamic terrorism."

What we need, Sean -- yes, we can defeat ISIS with a strong commander- in-chief.
If I am elected president, I will make unequivocally clear to the world we will
destroy ISIS. Now, how can we do so? We should do so, number one, with
overwhelming air power.

You know, in the first Persian Gulf war, we launched roughly 1,100 air attacks a
day, for 37 days, pulverized the Iraqi army. It then took 36 hours for our
troops to mop up what was left of it.

Right now today, Obama is launching between 15 and 30 air attacks a day. It's a
pinprick. It's a photo op for political.

And the second thing we ought to be doing is arming the Kurds. The Kurds are
fighting ISIS. They are our allies. They are effective fighters. The Kurds are,
in a very real sense, our boots on the ground.

And yet the Obama administration -- and Hillary Clinton is sadly in this mix.
They refuse to arm the Kurds for political reasons because it would upset
Baghdad. That doesn't make any sense!

HANNITY: Well, let me ask you about the establishment. There's been a lot
written and talked about in this campaign about insurgent candidacies. Yours
obviously now is on the rise. You have great numbers in Iowa, New Hampshire, and
your numbers have gone up pretty dramatically nationally, and Donald Trump says
you guys are going to be fighting pretty soon.

But more importantly, I hear that establishment talk, and there was a big donor
meeting at a big fancy hotel in California. that if an insurgent candidate wins
the primary, that they may fund and help Hillary Clinton. What is your reaction
to that?

CRUZ: Well, look, it indicates what is wrong with Washington. People are fed up
with what I call the Washington cartel. As you know, this summer, I wrote a book
called "A Time for Truth," where I talk a great deal about the Washington
cartel, the career politicians in both parties who get in bed with the lobbyists
and the special interests and grow and grow and grow government.

And those folks are very dismayed that a president might come in who is actually
a conservative who will stop the corporate welfare. Listen, there's a reason,
Sean, that the lobbyists are all supporting Hillary Clinton and Marco Rubio.
There's a reason the lobbyists are not supporting my campaign...

HANNITY: You know...

CRUZ: ... because they understand in Washington -- yes, go ahead.

HANNITY: Well, listen, Ronald Reagan was viewed as an outsider. He wasn't
particularly loved by the establishment, and nor was Newt Gingrich, who's going
to join us in a minute.

Let me ask this question. We had this tragedy, Planned Parenthood, shooting --
you weighed in on it in a couple of ways.

CRUZ: Yes.

HANNITY: Negative and hateful speech allowed this to happen, was the headline in
The New York Daily News. I want you to react to that.

CRUZ: Well, with regard to the shooting at Planned Parenthood, what happened
there was a horrific crime. I mean, it was a deranged killer who murdered three
people, murdered a police officer, murdered two innocent civilians, injured
others. And our prayers should be with their families. And it is a terrible
crime.

And I have to say, it was really sad to see the media falling all over
themselves to try to politicize this, to try to use this as an avenue to attack
conservatives. And it really shows the media bias of the mainstream media, where
they're so excited to paint anyone who believes in the right to life as somehow
being a murderer.

Listen, I am unapologetically pro-life. That means protecting the right of every
human being from conception to natural death as a gift from God. That means I'm
against murderers like this individual murderer, and that's something the media
has a very hard time understanding.

HANNITY: All right, Senator, good to see you, as always. And we look forward to
having you on often. Thank you. Appreciate it.

CRUZ: Thank you.

HANNITY: When we come back, former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich -- he's
here. He'll weigh in on the 2016 GOP field.

Then later, Jeb Bush taking heat for comparing Herman Cain's 2012 run to Donald
Trump's White House bid. Herman Cain is here to respond.

All of that and much more tonight as "Hannity" continues.

HANNITY: And welcome back to "Hannity." So we're just two months away from the
Iowa caucuses. Joining us now to weigh in on the GOP field, author of the
brand-new book, "Duplicity." He's the former speaker of the House. He's a FOX
news contributor. Always good to have him, Newt Gingrich. Sir, how are you?

NEWT GINGRICH (R), FMR. HOUSE SPEAKER, FMR. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE, FOX
CONTRIBUTOR: I'm doing great. And it's an amazing process.

HANNITY: It's an amazing -- you know, one of the things I try to remind people,
it's an unpredictable one. Some people are going to trip and fall. Some will get
back up. Some will stumble and never get back up, right? I mean, so we don't
know...

(CROSSTALK)

HANNITY: ... what's going to happen. But it appears there are three
front-runners now, and that would be Trump, Cruz and Rubio. You agree?

GINGRICH: I think that's right, although I'd like to wait a little longer to see
how Dr. Carson shakes out. I thought his going to Jordan, I thought, was a very
smart step in sort of reasserting that he's capable of learning and that he's
capable of doing national security.

So I would say maybe there are four of them, with Carson having lost some ground
in the last couple of week. And of course, Trump is just remaining the
front-runner in a way that's amazing.

HANNITY: What do you...

GINGRICH: And I think everybody's got to recognize they've got get past Trump if
they're going to become the nominee.

HANNITY: Yes. It's interesting -- and you're a great historian and I respect
your knowledge of history. Look, 1994 was a revolutionary year, when you came
into power, the first time Republicans had power in 40 years. Reagan, people
forget, he was hated by establishment Republicans. They hated him. But yet he
won the presidency and he won it by a landslide.

My question to you is, do you think that this is that type of year where an
insurgent not only could do well in the polls but go all the way?

GINGRICH: Oh, I clearly think they could go all the way. I think the level of
dissatisfaction in the country, the sense of corruption, things like you were
just seeing today coming out more and more in Chicago, where under Rahm Emanuel,
the police apparently hid all the photos of a young man being shot 16 times --
for a year, they had these movies.

People look around and they think the whole system's crazy. They look at the
college campuses, where people run around making nutty arguments and engaging in
a kind of language pattern that's crazy, and they think, What is happening to
America?

And they want somebody, frankly, who can kick in the door. And that's Trump's
greatest advantage and it's Cruz's greatest advantage. They're the two guys who
are the most likely to have the force of will to kick in the door.

Marco's great advantage, Rubio, is that he's very likable. He's very smart. And
Carson has this unique ability to communicate sincerity and is a total outsider.
So what you're seeing voters say is, If you're a traditional normal insider, I
know you won't fix things.

HANNITY: Yes.

GINGRICH: And therefore, even if you're a good guy, you're not on my list of
possible candidates.

HANNITY: The president has said now two things at this global summit, the global
warming, global cooling, whatever, climate change summit. And he said, one, he
can't think of a tougher problem for the world to deal with than climate change.
And then he actually said the climate change meeting was a rebuke against ISIS.

Now, from my perspective, radical Islamic mullahs in Iran getting nuclear
weapons and threatening to wipe Israel off the map, radical Islamic terrorism,
the economy as bad as it is, the debt as bad as it is, the number of people in
poverty and on food stamps is bad as it is -- to me, those are far more severe
problems.

How can he be so out of touch so often on so many important issues?

GINGRICH: Well, let me add the United Nations report this afternoon that some
400 civilians were killed in Iraq in the last month alone. So when the president
looks around the planet, he doesn't see the human casualties. He doesn't see the
executions and beheadings. He doesn't see the spread of ISIS.

But here's the challenge we have. And you sort of came the closest of anybody in
2008 to understanding this. This president's delusional. He's not ideological.
It's not just that he's left wing. He lives in a fantasy world.

His description yesterday that, you know, global warming is going to submerge
entire countries, force us to abandon cities, leave farm fields that are no
longer usable -- and this list went on and on. It was like Al Gore at his most
irrational. But this is the president of the United States, and the danger is he
may believe all that stuff.

HANNITY: That's (INAUDIBLE) danger (INAUDIBLE)

GINGRICH: None of it, by the way -- none of it's the truth. And even if you
really believe in global warming, none of what he asserted is true at any point
in the next hundred years.

HANNITY: All right, and by the way, has he not studied the history of the Dutch
and those that have been able to build and maybe the Chinese that are building
entire islands now? We have advanced our technology, and they are capable of
building dikes to prevent the water from accomplishing the very thing he's
predicting.

GINGRICH: Look, they're not part of his religion. His religion is global warming
is terrible, global warming is a disaster, global warming is horrible, and if
you don't believe those things, you're not part of his religion. And it's
literally a religious-like commitment to a fantasy world.

HANNITY: You know, if you look at Mike Morell's comments, he actually admitted
something I think is actually chilling, that they didn't bomb the oil wells
that's providing ISIS all the money -- they're now the richest terrorist group
in history, with more land mass because he pulled out of Iraq too early. And we
didn't hit the oil wells because they didn't want environmental damage.

Now, imagine if Harry Truman thought that way. Probably World War II would be
continuing on at this moment.

GINGRICH: Well, look, I was told -- I don't know if -- I think this is true,
although I find it hard to believe, that at one point, we leafleted a group of
trucks that were oil tankers to tell the guys in the trucks to get out of the
trucks before we destroyed the trucks.

HANNITY: That's ISIS.

GINGRICH: Now, the guys who were in the trucks -- yes, the guys who were in the
trucks belong to ISIS. They're not non-combatants. They are people[ who are part
of the ISIS military.

HANNITY: Yes.

GINGRICH: You have to look at that kind of stuff. And my point is, do not try to
understand Barack Obama on any rational ground because, in fact, he lives in a
world in his head which has no relationship to what you and I and the entire
audience watching us thinks is reality.

HANNITY: All right, the Irish pessimistic side of me always says, Hillary can
still win. Forty-even percent of the country's likely to vote for her. And it
depends what states they're voting for her in, in terms of determining the next
president.

Do you think -- in spite of her being a weakened candidate, do you think she's a
formidable candidate?

GINGRICH: She's a very formidable candidate because most of her supporters have
already decided that even if they think she's a liar, they're going to vote for
her. Even if they think that the e-mails were a threat to national security,
they're going to vote for her. Even if they think the Clinton Foundation is
riddled with corruption, they're going to vote for her. And they're basically
like people chanting, Don't tell us anything negative. We're going to vote for
her anyway.

I think that's sobering, and it's as much sobering about America as it is about
Hillary Clinton.

HANNITY: All right, Mr. Speaker, always good to see you. Thank you, sir.

GINGRICH: Good to see you.

HANNITY: And coming up next tonight right here on "Hannity"...

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HERMAN CAIN (R), FMR. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: You have a lot of people in the
media and the establishment that are trying to bring down Trump with lies and
BS, and it's not going to work!

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: Herman Cain, the 999 candidate -- he's back on the campaign trail, but
this time, he's stumping for Donald Trump, now, this after Jeb Bush criticizes
the former presidential candidate. Herman is here.

And then later tonight...

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's hard to keep up with all these predictions. Is it
decades?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We need to cut the consumption of fossil fuels by over half
in the next 20 years.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Years.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The clock is ticking.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: Al Gore and the left, they've been predicting a climate doomsday
scenario for years, but a new documentary exposes this global warming hoax as we
continue, straight ahead.

HANNITY: Welcome back to HANNITY. Former Florida governor Jeb Bush recently
brought up Herman Cain's 2012 presidential bid. Bush predicted that Trump would
follow in Cain's footsteps and not win the nomination. Here's what he said.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JEB BUSH, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Look at the past. Herman Cain was winning
right now. Hillary Clinton was up 25 points this time eight years ago against an
unknown guy whose name now is President Barack Obama.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: On his website, Herman Cain fired back at Governor Bush saying, quote,
"At least I was once winning." And last night the former presidential hopeful
was back on the campaign trail, but this time it was for Republican frontrunner
and fellow political outsider Donald Trump. Joining us now, the man himself, Mr.
nine-nine-nine, former presidential candidate, fellow radio host, Herman Cain.

CAIN: Hello, Sean.

HANNITY: Nine-nine-nine, nobody will ever forget.

CAIN: It's still fine.

(LAUGHTER)

HANNITY: It's good to see you. Herman and I are good friends.

CAIN: Thank you. Yes.

HANNITY: Let's talk about this. You were an insurgent candidate. I felt that you
were unfairly targeted by the media and I felt that contributed to your quick
decline in the polls.

CAIN: Right.

HANNITY: Donald Trump seems to defy conventional political gravity. What's the
difference now?

CAIN: I think the difference is people are realizing that there are some people
in the media who will do these attacks and try to create a media frenzy. But two
of the reasons that Donald Trump has been immune to this is, number one, he
can't be influenced by other people's money. And, number two, he is a leader and
a fighter. That's why people keep turning out in big numbers at these rallies.
That's what's going on with Donald Trump.

HANNITY: The Republican establishment, though, has kind of telegraphed that if
one of these outsiders gets the nomination, they may even send their money to
Hillary Clinton. Do you think they'd actually do that? Do you think Trump, he is
doing well in the polls, Cruz is now doing well in the polls, he was with us
tonight.

CAIN: Right.

HANNITY: Do you think they can go all the way this time. Do you think the base
is angry enough?

CAIN: I believe that the base is angry enough. If it's Donald Trump, if it's
Marco Rubio, if it's Ted Cruz, even Ben Carson, even though his numbers are
starting to fall a little bit, and I still include in there as an outside chance
Mike Huckabee and Carly Fiorina. When the establishment says that they may go
and contribute that money to Hillary if Trump gets the nomination, that's like a
kid who says, if we can't play it my way, I'm going to play somewhere else.

HANNITY: I'm going to take my toys and go home.

CAIN: Exactly. It would mean death to the Republican Party if they're that
selfish rather than back whoever gets the nomination. Because here's the thing,
Sean, whoever gets the nomination, it will be because Main Street USA spoke and
not the establishment. They don't run this country like they think they do. Main
Street USA is rising up.

HANNITY: Why Trump for you?

CAIN: Trump is one of my pick six. Three months ago, I indicated publicly on my
website, HermanCain.com, that Donald Trump, Ben Carson, Marco Rubio, Ted Cruz,
Carly Fiorina, and Mike Huckabee were six of the people that I picked because of
the strength of what I thought their leadership qualities would be as well as
the strength of their ideas. Now, since then, four of my six are still in the
running.

Some people want to say that I'm endorsing someone. I am not endorsing anyone. I
know that a lot of unpredictable things can happen in a presidential campaign. I
have been there. And so as a result, I looked at those six as the six that I
could personally be happy with if they got the nomination to help them become
president.

HANNITY: I had a pick five, and I'm kind of now down to a pick three at least
for now. But you're right things can change. That's why you have got to leave
options open.

CAIN: Right.

HANNITY: Herman, nobody will ever forget nine-nine-nine. Good to see you, my
friend.

CAIN: Thanks a lot, Sean. Pleasure to be with you.

HANNITY: We appreciate it. And coming up next tonight here on HANNITY.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DONALD TRUMP, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: While the world is in turmoil and
falling apart in so many different ways especially with ISIS, our president is
worried about global warming. What a ridiculous situation.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: Donald Trump, he calls out President Obama for being worried about the
environment when he should be focusing on defeating radical Islamists. That's
next.

Also tonight --

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's hard to keep up with all these predictions. It is
decades?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We need to cut the consumption of fossil fuels by over half
in the next 20 years.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Years?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The clock is ticking.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: A new documentary is debunking global warming myths. The film's
producer is here along with our own Geraldo Rivera. That's straight ahead.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: While the world is in turmoil and falling apart in so many different
ways, especially with ISIS, our president is worried about global warming. What
a ridiculous situation.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: All right, that was Donald Trump calling out President Obama. It seems
our commander in chief is more worried about the weather than he is about
defeating radical Islamists. And that's not all. Is the Paris climate conference
just a big waste of time and money? A new documentary called "Climate Hustle"
takes aim at many of the global warming alarmists and debunks much of their
so-called science. Here's a clip from the film.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The message went from global warming causes less snow to
global warming causes more snow.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Boston as of this point is in number two snowiest winter.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Is this all part of climate change?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think it is.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: More snow, less snow, forest fires increase, forest fires
decrease, malaria increase, malaria decrease, more fog, less fog, winters
warmer, winters colder. So no matter what the outcome, they can claim they
predicted it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: The film even goes after Learjet liberal Al Gore. Watch this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think it's a wonderful teaching tool because it shows how
we don't do science.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I voted for Gore in 2000, yes. I think that if he ran again,
depending on who he ran against, I might vote for him. He's a smart man.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: But after viewing Gore's film, he had this reaction.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I was appalled. I was appalled because he either deliberately
misrepresented the point he was making or didn't understand it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: Here with reaction, FOX News senior correspondent Geraldo Rivera, he is
in Paris for the conference, and the publisher of "Climate Depot" and producer
of "Climate Hustle" Marc Morano is with us. Good to see you wall. Marc, do you
know the footprint, you have 50,000 people going for two weeks. The carbon
footprint is 300,000 tons of carbon dioxide that they're going to churn out
here, which, by the way, amounts to less than one percent of what New York City
emits in a year. Is it worth the price?

MARC MORANO, PRODUCER, "CLIMATE HUSTLE": They do this every year. It's like a
floating party the size of a country that uses more energy than many African
nations combined. And they do this every year. This year's a particularly large
one. And the goal of these conferences has nothing to do with science. They
ceased talking about science decades ago. They actually say even if we're wrong
on science, we're doing the right thing by policy.

HANNITY: First it was the coming ice age. Then it was the earth is going to burn
up and global warming. And now they have climate change. As you pointed out, if
it snows, if it doesn't snow, if it rains, if it doesn't rain, hurricane, no
hurricane, tsunami, no tsunami, volcanic action or none, it's always climate
change no matter what is it.

MORANO: In our film we go back to 1970s. We have Walter Cronkite, ABC News,
Leonard Nimoy warning of the coming ice age. And we actually say before fossil
fuels caused global warming, fossil fuels caused global cooling. And there was
actually the theory that fossil fuel burning was going to block out the sun and
cool the earth. But now they say that never happened just like they're trying to
erase the global warming pause. The levers of control of the global warming
movement are crafting a narrative and they're actually erasing the past on many
important things.

HANNITY: Geraldo, the president actually said he can think of no tougher problem
than the issue of climate change. Now, I think of radical Islamic mullahs in
Iran building weapons of mass destruction, threatening to blow Israel off the
map is a bigger problem. ISIS, Al Qaeda, radical Islam is a bigger problem. The
economy is a bigger problem. But he thinks this is the biggest. What's going on
from your perspective there?

GERALDO RIVERA, FOX NEWS SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: You know, Sean, I think that
Donald Trump, the clip you played at the beginning of this segment, really
nailed it. It is difficult to wrap your arms around a problem like climate
change, and I'm certainly no expert and I don't want to get involved in a debate
over whether it exists or not, if the earth is getting hotter or cooler.

I know that this was, in the president's words, the biggest gathering of world
leaders in the planet's history. But what was wrong with it is that here in
Paris, of all places, the blood has barely been cleaned off the sidewalks from
139 people who were killed, hundreds are injured, some still in hospital,
families have been disrupted. And to talk about a long term problem, whatever
the scientific merits, I don't get engaged in that. To talk about decades and
generations and centuries from now when you have an urgent problem that the
French president called an existential threat to civilization that is why the
conference was if anything as lame as you can possibly get.

HANNITY: Marc, let me go to you. The president talked about fish swimming in the
streets of Miami. Didn't that happen because of the new moons, the lunar cycle
in September? I haven't seen that on a regular basis, predicting submerged
countries, abandoned cities, fields that will no longer grow. Is any of that
true?

MORANO: It was like an apocalyptic doom preacher. This was a religious, revival
trying to scare people with no basis in science. And by the way, the idea that
somehow ISIS was created by manmade global warming because --

HANNITY: I heard him on my radio show say that today, that ISIS was created by
climate change.

MORANO: They say drought in Syria. In 1933 the government of Syria banned a yoyo
because they thought yoyos caused drought. And now they want to ban coal plants
and SUVs because -- by the way, droughts, extreme weather, floods, hurricanes,
tornadoes, we detail this in the film -- not only are they not increasing. On
many metrics they're declining. So if when CO2 was lower in the atmosphere we
had less storminess. So the idea that cutting CO2 is going to improve our
climate or have anything to do with national security is laughable.

HANNITY: Geraldo, last question for you. When you watch the press conference
today, I just see a president that has lost touch with what is important, with
what his top priority should be, and that has bought into iffy science at best.
And it's sort of like Al Gore. I've got Al Gore getting off his private jet.
We'll show the video as you talk here. That's a gulf stream two or three, one of
the biggest burning carbon polluters in the sky, and only him and his wife are
on the plane. We've got exclusive video. So I think there's great hypocrisy
here. What are your thoughts?

RIVERA: You know, Sean, I think that the president missed a real opportunity. He
admitted -- the press rather, missed the opportunity, the media gathered at the
press conference today, at the conference, missed the opportunity to ask the
president who had just had spoken with the Turkish president Erdogan about the
border with Turkey with Syria. The president of the United States says that
there is a 90 kilo meter gap where Turkey is allowing ISIS fuel to be entered
into the country and resold. Why didn't the president ask the Turkish president
about that? Why is the president now bombing oil facilities and oil trucks? Why
didn't he do it a year ago?

HANNITY: It won't take away ISIS' financial well, if you will, because they
didn't want environmental damage. I was shocked at Morell saying that, our
former CIA director.

RIVERA: That to me, I think that they did not bomb those facilities up until now
because they did not want to make Turkey angry. Everybody in this part of the
world knows that from northern Syria and northwest Iraq that oil is going into
Turkey. We saw it 10 years ago when we filmed that documentary "1000 Miles of
Bad Road." The president has to focus on the urgent crisis. It may be that there
will be climate change and the world is always changing and all the rest of
that, but this is an open wound that is bleeding that has to be a Band-Aid.

HANNITY: All right, I have got to run. Good luck with the film. Geraldo, safe
home when you're coming home, my friend. Thanks for being with us.

When we come back, you get to ask the questions. Our "Ask Sean" segment is next,
and our very important question of the day is straight ahead.

HANNITY: Time for our "Question of the Day." So as of now we're just two months
away from the Iowa caucuses. If that was being held today, that election, who do
you want to win? Just go to Facebook.com/SeanHannity, @SeanHannity, let us know
what you think.

Now you've been sending in questions all day. Time for our "Ask Sean" segment.
Here is the question.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Hey, Sean. With so many candidates in the GOP field, isn't it
time for the low pollers to start clearing out so we can all see what's really
going on?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: I would argue that's basically a good idea. Get some of the guys that
are not going to win, may it's time for them to clear the field. The debates
would be a little more interesting. Focus on those people that have a much
better chance to win.

But here is another idea. What about if people like Bobby Jindal who dropped out
or Scott Walker who dropped out, can you imagine if the person that wins the
nomination were to bring all these people together, announce the cabinet before
the election in November of 2016? That could be a very powerful force that could
alter electoral politics for many years to come. Just an idea.

Anyway, thanks for sending in the question. That is all the time we have left.
Thanks for being with us as always, and we will see you back here tomorrow
night.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120101cb.253

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                           December 2, 2015 Wednesday

                 SHOW: YOUR WORLD WITH NEIL CAVUTO 4:00 PM EST

Interview With Former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani

BYLINE: Neil Cavuto

GUESTS: Rudy Giuliani

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 1786  words


NEIL CAVUTO, HOST: First to the president now linking climate change to terror
attacks. I kid you not. Listen for yourself.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I know some have asked why the
world would dedicate some of our focus right now to combating climate change,
even as we work to protect our people and go after terrorist networks. The
reason is because this one trend, climate change, affects all trends.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CAVUTO: All right. So what he`s essentially saying, this warming up of the Earth
has made people nastier, has brought on more of these types of attacks, and more
of this dissidence.

Now, if you think about that for a second, remember at a time, let`s say, when I
was young, which is quite a while ago, we had a global freeze fear worry, right?
Remember the big freeze. I showed you these covers of TIME, Newsweek,
Businessweek, et cetera, et cetera.

Now, at that same time, I might stress, when we were talking about the big
freeze, this was all the big rage when I was a younger person, all right, a much
younger person, all right, a kid -- look what was going on. Look what was going
on. Look at all these terror attacks. Go back to Munich. Go back to the Rome
airport attacks.

Go back to multiple attacks all over the world, when the world was cold. It was
cold. Weird.

Not so former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani joins me right now.

(LAUGHTER)

CAVUTO: It is weird, right, to try to link the two. It`s a bit of a stretch.

RUDY GIULIANI (R), FORMER MAYOR OF NEW YORK: It`s one of the more inexplicable
things -- and he`s done a few inexplicable things as president -- has done. He
must be getting some pretty bad advice.

(LAUGHTER)

GIULIANI: I mean, so, I have been studying Islamic religion and Islamic
terrorism as a way that people misinterpret the religion or interpret it in the
wrong way for 30, 40 years.

(LAUGHTER)

GIULIANI: And it`s got nothing to do with climate change.

(CROSSTALK)

CAVUTO: That they feel guilty that they were going to this conference, talking
about this, in the middle of this terror, and then trying to justify it?

GIULIANI: Well, you would have to go back to the sixth century if you wanted to
attribute it to climate change. I mean, Mohammed...

CAVUTO: But you`re old enough to go back.

GIULIANI: Mohammed was attacking villages in the sixth century.

CAVUTO: Then what do you think he was up to? Let me ask you, because, Mayor --
when you were mayor of New York...

(CROSSTALK)

GIULIANI: Demanding tribute if you didn`t...

(CROSSTALK)

CAVUTO: Fair enough. Fair enough.

When you were mayor of New York and there was planning -- there was going to be
a big global conference, let`s say, climate change. I would doubt you would hold
a big conference on -- but, nevertheless, be whatever the issue is, it was all
planned. There were terror attacks, what have you.

You don`t want to send a message to bad guys that that`s off. Or do you? Or do
you re-confab and then say we`re going to still do this, but we`re going to add
this to it?

GIULIANI: I think the honest answer is, you do it on a case-by-case basis. Every
case I was ever presented with, we went ahead, for example, the 2000 New Year`s
celebration for...

CAVUTO: Oh, yes, yes, yes. Remember that, Y2K. Everyone was...

GIULIANI: Well, Y2K and...

CAVUTO: Terror.

GIULIANI: ... terror attacks were threatened on Seattle, New York. Some places
canceled their celebrations.

CAVUTO: I remember.

GIULIANI: We had a big meeting, including with the FBI, and decided to go
forward with it. We just doubled, tripled our security.

After September 11, you might remember, I urged people to get back. I was asked,
should we go forward? Should the Yankees come back and play, should the Mets
come back and play? David Letterman talked about it on his show, actually, that
he called me and asked me, is it OK for me to go back on the air?

My general feeling is, you just let life go on as normal.

CAVUTO: Isn`t that what the president`s doing?

GIULIANI: And I lived through the London attacks, believe it or not. I was a
half-a-block away from the Liverpool station when the first bomb went off in
London.

And I saw how the people of London, the next day, everybody came back to work. I
believe it`s a partial defense to terrorism, resiliency.

CAVUTO: Well, that`s what the president and the French president are saying
about this climate change...

(CROSSTALK)

CAVUTO: So, you might not be a big fan of this debate, but you would still hold
it. So where`s the president wrong?

GIULIANI: Absolutely right.

He -- the president`s wrong in linking -- somehow by fixing climate change, if
he`s going to fix it, he`s going to fix terrorism. And that`s absurd. There`s no
connection between the two things.

It`s like two different things. It`s like saying, you know, I`m going to fix
terrorism by curing cancer.

CAVUTO: His argument -- and help me with this, Mayor -- is that it`s going to
deplete natural resources, dry areas that are going to be -- irrigation, make
desperate areas even more desperate, desperate populations. You say what?

GIULIANI: The terrorism that we`re dealing with is not emerging from
desperation. Many of these people are middle-class or rich people who are
involved in the terror.

CAVUTO: That`s right.

GIULIANI: This is an ideologically or religiously based, and I would say
certainly a misinterpretation of the religion, and a -- or if you want to call
it a hijacking of the religion.

But the religion has been turned into an ideology. It`s like saying, you know,
communism was caused by climate change. This is -- these are ideas that people
have. And the ideas don`t come from the fact that it`s cold out or warm out,
they`re starving or not starving.

The idea is that there should be a caliphate, that we all should either be
Muslim or we should submit to the Muslim -- we should all convert or we should
pay tribute to the one true God. This is a belief system.

And it`s been an interpretation of both the Koran and the hadith now for 1,400,
1,500 years. Many, many Muslims, the vast majority of Muslims reject it. I was
the person on the evening of September 11 who said, don`t get angry at all
Muslims. And there`s just a...

CAVUTO: I remember, you and President Bush. I remember that.

GIULIANI: And I said this. Don`t use group blame. Group blame is what is getting
us in this problem. But you can`t ignore the fact that this emerges from certain
texts in the religion that are interpreted in that way.

CAVUTO: And that it`s not climate-related.

GIULIANI: Yes.

It has nothing to -- as I recall the Koran and the Hadith, it says nothing about
climate.

CAVUTO: Right.

Let me switch gears, if you don`t mind, because your name has come up as to
Donald Trump...

GIULIANI: Correct.

CAVUTO: ... and these allegations that there were Muslims dancing and happily
celebrating the fall of the towers on 9/11. A lot of people say that never
happened. Chris Christie said he doesn`t recall it.

What is the deal?

GIULIANI: Well, I think the issue here is the number, the thousand people. I
have no recollection of thousands.

(CROSSTALK)

GIULIANI: I do have distinct recollection of having reported to me by the police
a number of incidents, several.

(CROSSTALK)

CAVUTO: Well, it was certainly going on over the world. I remember that.

GIULIANI: Let`s say it was a period of time where there were a lot of things
going on, so my recollection is not going to be great. But...

CAVUTO: He was mentioning New Jersey. He remembers New Jersey.

GIULIANI: OK.

So I will read to you from an article September 14, 2001.

CAVUTO: Sure.

GIULIANI: Fred Segal, New York Post. This is back then.

CAVUTO: OK.

GIULIANI: "Here in New York, it was easy to get angry listening to Egyptians,
Palestinians and the Arabs of nearby Paterson, New Jersey, celebrate as they
received word of the murderous attacks in New York and Washington. But Mayor
Giuliani, who has been tireless and magnificent in this crisis, rightly warned
New Yorkers that it would be wrong to take that anger out on the city`s Arab and
Muslim residents. Attacks on Arab Americans in Paterson or elsewhere are utterly
indefensible."

And over the years now, we get beyond that. Over the years, I have had people
report to me things like that, that there were celebrations. I had a person call
me today and tell me that his friend was in a cab and the Muslim cab driver was
celebrating when he heard about September 11.

CAVUTO: So, the only mistake that Trump might have made is assigning a number to
it. I certainly remember covering it, at the time, that there were celebrations
around the world, particularly in the Middle East.

(CROSSTALK)

GIULIANI: And there were celebrations -- and I can tell you -- reported to me.
Now, I didn`t see them.

CAVUTO: OK. Understood.

GIULIANI: So, could be wrong. Reported to me by the police, were attacks in
Brooklyn, Queens, and in the Bronx.

CAVUTO: When you say attacks, what do you...

GIULIANI: Meaning that there were a couple of these incidents where the Muslims
were celebrating and people attacked them.

People, in other words, interchanged with them.

CAVUTO: I see.

GIULIANI: Because, that evening, after I made that...

CAVUTO: Because that became like a new security threat for you.

GIULIANI: After I made that admonition not to take it out on people who were
Arab or were Muslim, I assigned to the police commissioner the role of making it
a part of CompStat. Let`s keep track of all the hate incidents.

So, that`s the context in which it came back to me. And some of the attacks were
as a response to celebrations. Some of the attacks were just attacks.

(CROSSTALK)

CAVUTO: Some people who just say you got it completely -- that Trump got it
completely wrong, he didn`t. He may have gotten the number wrong or might
have...

GIULIANI: There certainly were celebrations.

CAVUTO: So when Chris Christie said that there were not or he didn`t recall
it...

GIULIANI: Well, I think this is getting...

CAVUTO: I understand.

GIULIANI: ... getting to be...

CAVUTO: I`m just trying to get...

GIULIANI: Were there hundreds and thousands? Were there hundreds and thousands?

CAVUTO: ... to remember exactly.

GIULIANI: I never heard about hundreds and thousands anywhere.

CAVUTO: OK.

GIULIANI: Did I hear about scattered incidents? The answer is yes.

CAVUTO: Interesting.

Rudy Giuliani...

GIULIANI: So, it`s somewhere in the middle or somewhere...

CAVUTO: Somewhere there.

GIULIANI: Who knows where it is? But the most important thing is, we can`t
create the impression that this is most Muslims. It is not. Most of them,
overwhelming majority, reject this.

CAVUTO: You got some heat for saying that, as did President Bush soon after
that. Remember that?

GIULIANI: Yes. The vast majority reject it.

CAVUTO: All right.

Mayor, always good seeing you. Thank you very much, clarifying that.

GIULIANI: Thanks.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120201cb.140

DOCUMENT-TYPE: INTERVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               22 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                           December 2, 2015 Wednesday

                 SHOW: YOUR WORLD WITH NEIL CAVUTO 4:24 PM EST

Interview With Former Massachusetts Senator Scott Brown

BYLINE: Neil Cavuto

GUESTS: Scott Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 822  words


NEIL CAVUTO, HOST: He may be a former senator, but let`s just say he has juice,
not the guy on the right there everyone seems to be talking about these days as
an alternative consensus candidate for president of the United States.

I`m talking about Scott Brown, who has been having these backyard barbecues
which is getting hard to do these days. It`s getting very, very cold. In New
Hampshire, it`s like eight degrees or something like that.

But, anyway, they -- they show up in throngs, when Brown is holding one of these
events. And he just held one for Marco Rubio.

The former Massachusetts senator with us right now.

Senator, good to have you.

How many showed up for this event?

SCOTT BROWN (R), FORMER U.S. SENATOR: Over 500 showed up for the Marco...

CAVUTO: Are you kidding?

BROWN: Yes, it was unbelievable. We had it inside in a barn. And we started
heating it around -- I was there around 10:00, put on the heaters, and, you
know, pulled -- brought in heat, I should say.

But Marco was over 500. And they were literally packed in like sardines. And I
will be honest with you. They loved him. He took the time, answered every
question thoroughly, thoughtfully, has a wide range of knowledge.

We talked about ISIS, talked about student debt, talked about getting kids into
vocational school, talked about obviously the debt and deficit, talked about
Israel. It was a wide range. And he -- Common Core. So, he was great.

CAVUTO: All right.

Well, then you have already lied to me, Scott, because this was not a backyard
barbecue. You guys got all scaredy-cat because it got a little cold and you went
inside, didn`t you, didn`t you?

(LAUGHTER)

BROWN: No, it was in someone`s back yard, so it still counts, OK?

(LAUGHTER)

CAVUTO: Now, with that crowd, 500 or so, I think, you said at the outset, how
does that rank with some of the others?

BROWN: Yes, that`s number one.

CAVUTO: Is that right?

BROWN: Carly was -- Carly was about 425. That was number two, and then Jeb Bush
about a little over 350.

CAVUTO: Oh.

BROWN: And then probably Kasich, which was about almost 300, then Christie.

So, and it`s interesting. That`s basically, I think, aside from Kasich, how kind
of the polling is going here in New Hampshire, with Christie really putting on
some steam because he got The Union Leader endorsement, which is a big deal.

CAVUTO: Is it a big deal? Or is it as a big deal as it used to be? What do you
think?

(CROSSTALK)

BROWN: Hard to say, because with the advent of the Internet, you know, and
social media sources, but Joe McQuaid still has a lot of juice and people,
especially a lot of the old-timers, they really pay attention to him.

And Christie has done almost 40 town halls, really investing, I think,
everything here to have a good showing and really be the top three.

(CROSSTALK)

CAVUTO: Well, he definitely feels that he`s got the juice right now. I`m not
calling it Scott Brown juice.

BROWN: Right.

CAVUTO: But when we heard the governor on another rival show this morning, he
certainly sounded pretty proud of himself. This is from the governor this
morning.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE (R-NJ), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: What we have seen over the
last seven years is somebody who thought, gee whiz, isn`t it great to be here?

QUESTION: Does Marco have the experience to be president?

CHRISTIE: Listen, he doesn`t have my experience.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CAVUTO: What do you think of that? "He doesn`t have my experience."

BROWN: Well, hey, listen, Christie obviously has the gubernatorial experience.
He has the prosecutorial experience. He`s been tested. He`s run in a blue state
and done well and has battled. There`s no doubt about it. He`s a battler. You
know it. You know it.

CAVUTO: Well, who do you hate? Of those who came to your house, who do you hate,
or they might have stole stuff from your house or backyard? Who...

BROWN: Yes, I don`t hate anybody, Neil.

I`ll tell you, every single one of them would make a better president --
president than Hillary Clinton or Bernie Sanders or O`Malley. That`s for darn
sure.

CAVUTO: All right, but you know the rap. Did Donald Trump ever do one of these
things with you?

BROWN: We have been in communication with Donald. And we`re trying to -- as
everything here, it`s the art of the deal. We`re negotiating.

(LAUGHTER)

BROWN: And we will see who the better negotiator is. He has certain parameters,
and I -- so do I. I try to treat everyone the same. Everyone gets the same
treatment, period.

CAVUTO: Well, what do you mean parameters? Does he want chateaubriand, instead
of white hots or what?

(LAUGHTER)

CAVUTO: No. We...

BROWN: He wants hamburgers and sausage vs. hot dogs. I`m kidding. I`m kidding.

(LAUGHTER)

CAVUTO: All right, thank you, my friend. Very good.

I`ll tell you, you have got the juice, young man.

BROWN: Thanks, Neil.

CAVUTO: Scott Brown, the former senator of Massachusetts, took Ted Kennedy`s
seat. I can never get over that, what a huge deal that was, how historic that
was. All right.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120202cb.140

DOCUMENT-TYPE: INTERVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                           December 2, 2015 Wednesday

                 SHOW: YOUR WORLD WITH NEIL CAVUTO 4:36 PM EST

Interview With Virginia Congressman Randy Forbes

BYLINE: Neil Cavuto

GUESTS: Randy Forbes

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 843  words


(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

REP. RANDY FORBES (R), VIRGINIA: Well, let me ask you, have we currently
contained ISIL?

GEN. JOSEPH DUNFORD, JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF CHAIRMAN: We have not contained ISIL.

(CROSSTALK)

FORBES: Have they been contained at any time since 2010?

DUNFORD: Tactically, in areas, they have been. Strategically, they have spread
since 2010.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CAVUTO: All right, remind me not to get in an argument with this next guest,
Virginia Republican Congressman Randy Forbes.

Obviously, what you were trying to get at is whether ISIS, ISIL, whatever you
want to call these crazies, are contained. And you had an admission, no, no, not
anytime soon. In fact, the president adding to that from France that it could be
years, it could be years.

What do you make of all this, Congressman?

FORBES: Well, Neil, the frightening thing for us is we had Ambassador Crocker,
who testified before the Armed Services Committee just a few weeks ago, and he
said we had them defeated in 2009, and what allowed them to come back on
steroids was the fact that this administration pulled not only all of our
military presence out, but all of our political engagement.

Then you have the president coming out, and he`s talking about them being some
kind of J.V. team and the fact that we have them contained. And as you just
heard, you have the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff coming up today and
saying, we not only haven`t had them contained now, but, since 2010, we haven`t
put the resources that we needed to actually defeat them and contain them.

So we`re very concerned that the president still doesn`t have the right strategy
to defeat ISIL. We think it`s important that he does that.

CAVUTO: What do you think, Congressman, of the president linking it with climate
change, that, in other words, we don`t address these problems, we`re going to
have a lot more of these ISIS-related problems?

FORBES: Well, I think very few people -- I have had world leaders that have come
to my office within the last several weeks, and they tell me the number one
problem on the planet today is not climate change.

They`re worried about terrorism. They`re worried about ISIS. And trying to have
some kind of pact that`s going to be years down the road is not going to deal
with the ISIL threat today. That`s what we need, him back here creating a
strategy that`s going to actually deal with them, not going across the world and
trying to get the American people`s eyes shifted somewhere else.

CAVUTO: You know, what worried me, to get back to what you said at the outset,
Congressman, this notion that we`re sort of acknowledging that ISIS is going to
be a problem for quite a while, and maybe a few years, obviously something that
the new president would have to deal with.

When we have the resources, I would imagine, right now, because depending on the
count, I think in your -- within your committee, there`s been talk maybe 20,000
to 30,000 ISIS members out there. What do you make of that, that they`re
pickable now, and we`re not doing anything now?

FORBES: Well, they`re only going to be growing, Neil.

And one of the things that we have seen, again, he had advice back in 2010 that
this was going to happen. This isn`t a big surprise. And he just ignored it
then, as he has so many other situations on the globe.

And then what you have is this thing developing to a situation like it is today.
If he continues not to have a strategy to deal with it, can you only imagine
what it`s going to be three years, four years down the road?

He needs to roll up his sleeves, come back home, develop a strategy, and say
we`re going to defeat these guys before they come back and cause more harm, not
just to us, but across the globe?

CAVUTO: All right, so when Ashton Carter talks about special ops forces,
anywhere from a few dozen, maybe a few hundred men and women, that sort of
thing, it`s spoken always in vague terms. Will that be enough?

I have had senators on, John McCain and Lindsey Graham, who say you`re going to
need thousands, thousands. What do you think of that?

FORBES: Well, you`re going to need at least a different strategy.

Let me just take one of the things that Secretary Carter said. Before our
committee today, he came not only in written form, but verbally said we`re at
war. Well, he had to be corrected by the chairman of the Joint Chiefs sitting
right beside him. He said, we`re not technically at war.

And so this president will come back or the administration and they will take
some strong verbiage and say we`re at war, we have got a strategy, but then we
find out that they`re doing something else on the left hand. And it`s not
creating the kind of strategy we need to deal with this very, very real threat
today that`s going to take a lot of direction from the United States and
leadership.

Their lack of leadership right now, Neil, has made it so that our allies are
very frustrated and our enemies are taking advantage of it across the globe.

CAVUTO: Congressman, thanks for taking the time. We appreciate it.

FORBES: Thank you. Thank you, Neil.

CAVUTO: All right.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120203cb.140

DOCUMENT-TYPE: INTERVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                           December 2, 2015 Wednesday

                 SHOW: YOUR WORLD WITH NEIL CAVUTO 4:51 PM EST

Interview With Texas Congressman Henry Cuellar

BYLINE: Neil Cavuto

GUESTS: Henry Cuellar

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 794  words


NEIL CAVUTO, HOST: All right, this refugee problem is getting out of control
right now, and now a Democratic congressman wants to remind folks, how are we
going to deal with it here?

The widely respected Henry Cuellar joining us right now.

Congressman, good to have you.

(CROSSTALK)

REP. HENRY CUELLAR (D), TEXAS: Thank you.

CAVUTO: Your worry is that we really haven`t found a way to deal with this,
essentially, right?

CUELLAR: We still have a problem with so many people coming in.

Last year, we had 62,000 kids that came in, 40,000 of them unaccompanied, 22,000
of them with parents. These are from Central America. We had about 87, 90
Syrians that came in this last fiscal year in South Texas, and then also Cubans.

Cubans -- we had about 45,000 Cubans that came in through the southwest part of
the border, about 27,000 of them through my hometown of Laredo. So...

(CROSSTALK)

CAVUTO: So, what do we do about the Syrians? Now, we have got a freeze on taking
them in. What do you want to see?

The administration says that we have safeguarded to make sure they`re secure and
checked out. I know you were among those who said, well, we better have a system
in place to make it even more so. Are you satisfied we do or are you not there
yet?

CUELLAR: No, I don`t think we`re there.

We had -- we heard some of the administration officials say that they cannot say
that people coming in are going to be secured. So, how are we not going to let
people in where we -- not have -- we don`t have the right vetting? And that`s
one thing. That`s one of the reasons I supported that, because I`m not saying
don`t let people in, but if we`re going to let somebody in, we have got to make
sure they`re not coming in to hurt us.

CAVUTO: What do you think, Congressman? Apparently, in the Senate, the holdup
could be Harry Reid, who doesn`t even want to take up the measure. Now, I don`t
know how it works in the Senate, whether the minority leader can stop
legislation from going forward or even being voted on. But what do you think of
that?

CUELLAR: Well, I think as -- I think probably what they`re looking at is, they
got to get 60 votes to get something done.

CAVUTO: Right. Right.

CUELLAR: You know, my thing is not only look at the refugees, but look at the
visa waivers, look at overstays. There`s a lot of areas that people can come in.

And we just got to be smarter on how we let people in. We should let them in
under the law. But if somebody is going to come in, we got to do the proper
vetting, no ifs, no buts.

CAVUTO: All right, proper vetting is tough, right, though, when there are no
paper trails or records.

A lot of these guys come in because they -- they`re seeking asylum. They run in
with whatever they have on their back and their kids, whatever. But in the case
of some countries, like in Canada, no single males allowed. What do you think of
that strategy?

CUELLAR: Well, again, that`s something that I think everything should be put on
the table.

I think, if a child comes in, 4 or 5 years, that should be given a different
consideration from somebody who is military-age, let`s say 18 to 24. I mean,
that`s a different type of consideration we need to look at.

CAVUTO: Right.

CUELLAR: So, we have to put everything on the table. Again, we`re a
compassionate country.

But, at the same time, we can`t be dumb about it. We got to be smart on who
comes into the United States. It`s our -- it`s our security, it`s our community.
And we got to just be smarter on how we let people in. We just can`t say open
the doors to anybody coming in. We have got to make sure they`re secure before
they come in.

CAVUTO: Congressman, while I have you here, we`re getting more details on this
plan outlined by Defense Secretary Ash Carter on Capitol Hill about dealing with
the ISIS threat.

He`s looking at 200 special operations forces, including intelligence personnel,
some pilots to position them, mechanics to maintain their aircraft. Your
thoughts on that?

CUELLAR: Look, we have to do what we need to do.

If we have to put boots on the ground, special ops folks, we need to do that. If
we think we`re going to ignore ISIS and think that they`re going to stay in
their part of the world and not coming over to us, it`s not going to happen.

We have seen that just bombs by themselves, or bombing by themselves, it`s not
going to solve the problem. We saw that during World War II, the Germans and
Great Britain. We`re seeing that recently.

So, if we have to put more operation forces there, special operations forces,
let`s do it, because they`re not going to ignore us. They`re going to come after
us. I would rather go after them first.

CAVUTO: All right, Congressman, thank you for taking the time. Always good
seeing you.

CUELLAR: Thank you so much.

CAVUTO: Texas Congressman Henry Cuellar.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120204cb.140

DOCUMENT-TYPE: INTERVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                           December 2, 2015 Wednesday

              SHOW: FOX SPECIAL REPORT WITH BRET BAIER 6:00 PM EST

Shootings in California

BYLINE: Bret Baier, Jonathan Hunt, Adam Housley, Trace Gallagher, Shepard Smith

GUESTS: Ron Hosko, Rod Wheeler, Matt Graham, Ron Hoops, Dory Cohen, Rod Wheeler,
Ron Hosco

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 10699  words


BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS CHIEF POLITICAL ANCHOR: This is a Fox News alert. I'm Bret
Baier in Washington for SPECIAL REPORT with breaking news at this hour.

They came prepared, dressed in tactical gear, armed with long guns -- that, from
the police chief in San Bernardino, California. We're awaiting any moment a news
conference there from local officials. We'll take you there as soon as it
begins.

Up to three men, witnesses say they wore masks, bursting into a social services
center shortly after 11 a.m. local time where county employees were holding a
holiday lunch. At least 14 dead, at least 14 wounded and the suspects are still
on the loose at this hour; law enforcement actively hunting for these killers.

The motive -- authorities say they don't know. Is it terrorism? The FBI says we
can't say that yet. The police chief says it's definitely at least domestic
terrorism. What we do know, this was an organized attack. And the police chief
also said they came as if they were on a mission.

Chief correspondent Jonathan Hunt is on the scene in San Bernardino. Jonathan,
we're awaiting that news conference just over your shoulder.

JONATHAN HUNT, FOX NEWS CHIEF CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Bret. We are some four hours
into this incident unfolding right now. And the bold truth is this: at least
three shooters went into that inland regional center, killed at least 14,
injured at least 14 more and disappeared into thin air.

If the San Bernardino Police Department and other law enforcement agencies are
telling us all they know, then they simply don't know very much. And most
importantly of all, they don't know where these shooters are. There are reports
that they fled the scene in what is being termed by police as a dark SUV.

Did that go north on the 15 freeway towards Las Vegas? Did it go east on the 10
freeway toward Phoenix? Have they made use of the nearby Ontario airport? All
the answers to those questions are that the police at this stage do not seem to
have any idea.

As for the motive here, this was an inland regional center, used to help people
with educational and developmental disabilities. But there was a second
conference room in Building 3 of that campus. That conference room was rented
out today to an outside group that may have been staging a holiday party for
county personnel.

What department of the county were those personnel from? Again we are not clear.
There have been reports they were from the health department. But county
personnel could cover anything obviously from law enforcement to health to
social services -- pretty much anything.

So we know very little at this stage, except that there has been carnage in San
Bernardino -- as I say, at least 14 killed, at least 14 injured. They are for
the majority at two nearby medical centers, Arrowhead Medical Center and Loma
Linda. There has been a heavy police presence at Loma Linda in particular. That
may be to do simply with interviewing some of those survivors.

We've seen from our location right here, Bret, four to five school buses loaded
with people who came from in or around the regional center where the shooting
took place. They have been taken as we understand it, to a nearby church.
They're being interviewed as witnesses by law enforcement there.

We know from some of those who have spoken publicly that they say there were at
least three shooters. They were all dressed in black. They were wearing masks.
Beyond that we have no more description of them and as I have said we have no
idea of the motive at this point -- Bret.

BAIER: Jonathan Hunt there on the scene. We are in desperate information -- need
for information and you're looking live as they set up for this news conference
that should be any moment, we're told sometime toward the top of the hour. And
we will take you there live as law enforcement continues to hunt for what they
believe to be three suspects armed, very dangerous, wearing armor, some kind of
tactical gear and they leaving the scene in a dark SUV.

Let's get a law enforcement perspective now. Rod Wheeler was a homicide
detective here in Washington, D.C. and Ron Hosko is a former FBI assistant
director crisis management lead. Gentlemen -- thank you.

Ron let me start with you. At this moment what is law enforcement trying to do
the fact that they don't have or they haven't told us anything about knowing
where these guys went.

RON HOSKO, FORMER FBI ASST. DIRECTOR: Right, this is a dead sprint by law
enforcement to debrief witnesses, have the greatest possible understanding of
who was in that room so you have an understanding of victimology. Were they
coming for specific targets? Why these targets?

Looking back in time at this group, county employees, to see if there were
threats conveyed against them -- specific parts of local government, looking at
social media, interviews, working the forensics, as quickly as they can on the
weapons and pulling as much as they can cameras from the scene and try to put
that together and understand where we're going next.

BAIER: And Rod, you know, authorities said at the beginning they would only say
long guns.

ROD WHEELER, FORMER HOMICIDE DETECTIVE: Right.

BAIER: There were witnesses who described AK-47 like weapons.

WHEELER: Obviously an AR-15 would look like that but this was planned, this was
organized.

WHEELER: Oh yes -- very planned, very well organized. As a matter of fact, Bret,
I would even submit to you that these individuals, whoever they may be -- and
we'll find out eventually who they are -- they came there with a mission that
they wanted to do, to fulfill. They fulfilled that mission.

Part of their plan though and this is so interesting was their getaway escape,
their escape route. And that's why it's very difficult right now for law
enforcement to find these folks. Now, law enforcement don't know if these people
made it to the Orange County Airport or Ontario Airport. Maybe they got on the
plane. There have been some reports that there was a black SUV was spotted.

Did they get into another vehicle and continue on their escape? We don't know
any of that right now and that's why, Bret, the FBI as well as ATF and a number
of other agencies are actively involved in this investigation right now.

BAIER: And Ron, they can't say terrorism, they can't say motive here. But they
can say that this is a really dangerous situation for this particular community
right now.

HOSKO: I think this is incredibly dangerous. This is a very different than a
typical active shooter where 60 percent of them are concluded as law enforcement
is arriving at the scene or has just arrived at the scene.

The idea that three -- as many as three offenders could get away, you have to be
working with the expectation that they're going to plan the next one and strike
again.

BAIER: They talked about, Ron, all of the coordination between the different law
enforcement agencies responding. Is the FBI assisting that or they kind of
umbrella over it?

HOSKO: Typically the FBI is coming in to assist, to look at are there other
targets? Is there a broader plot? Is it terrorism? So by and large, the FBI
comes in, in support of state and local law enforcement, the lead local agency.

This is a different type of event. And I -- it was good to see my friend Dave
Bowditch, the assistant director out there on the scene. Think you're going to
see a bigger FBI footprint in this one, greater involvement. Reach back to FBI
headquarters to be extracting every bit of intelligence that the FBI has in its
holdings.

BAIER: Let me bring in someone else, insight from Matt Graham, he's a SWAT
officer instructor at Graham Combat. He joins us on the phone. Matt your
assessment of this as you'd watched it unfold this afternoon. What's the
challenge for law enforcement at this moment?

MATT GRAHAM, SWAT INSTRUCTOR, GRAHAM COMBAT (via telephone): Well, my assessment
of this is regardless of whether it's domestic or terrorism, it's all terrorism.
(inaudible) with this stuff, Bret, the goal of terrorism is to terrorize and
we're seeing that play out here.

When we have three actors in this that compounds things significantly, so
instead of just one individual that we're now having to track we have three. And
if they've either gone to ground locally or if they're on foot and fleeing and
on foot meaning vehicle-based or just mobile it's exponentially a greater issue.

BAIER: And what are you doing. You know, you're looking for any tidbit of where
they may have gone. There was a report of an abandoned SUV, Tahoe (ph) in San
Bernardino. We haven't gotten any information on that and again we're waiting
for this news conference that we'll bring to you live.

But you're just looking for any scrap that could take you to where they may have
been headed.

GRAHAM: Absolutely. And that's one of the great pieces that you're going to get
with the FBI coming on board is their manpower ability is again in the same as
this terror act is exponential. They have hundreds and hundreds of FBI agents
that can now saturate the area and start looking for. Regardless of how you got
to the location, you had to drive by a gas station, a bank, an intersection that
had a camera. So they're able to start to cultivate that data and exploit that
data and begin to unravel what's going on here.

BAIER: Rod, back here in studio, somebody had to see something that helps them
piece together this puzzle.

WHEELER: That's right.

BAIER: Or hear something.

WHEELER: Absolutely. That's why there's a number of police officers that's just
been reported by Jonathan Hunt that has just arrived at the hospital. And the
reason is because they need to start interviewing those witnesses, the
survivors, as quickly as possible so that they can start putting the pieces
together in terms of what everybody saw.

You know, did they recognize the person? Did the shooters, did they say
anything? So far it hasn't been reported that they said anything which I find
kind of interesting. Because typically if it's a terrorist activity or a
terrorist attack, they're going holler out "allah akbar" or something. So far
Bret, we haven't heard any of that.

BAIER: Again Ron, the motive for going after a social services center that helps
mainly disabled men and women and children, and a holiday lunch that's for a
county health department, it doesn't seem like it adds up.

HOSKO: It doesn't seem like it adds up --

BAIER: Three guys, let alone one guy.

HOSKO: But for the fact that America is dotted with soft targets, and here are
two soft targets. There were probably other soft targets in the vicinity. So the
question is why this particular soft target? Did somebody have a grudge? Is
there something lurking? Is it a terminated employee with some friends? Is it
focused on one and everybody else becomes a victim because you happen to be in
the room?

It is critically important and Rod is talking about this, you have dozens if not
hundreds of police officers speeding to this scene with the expectation of
getting in a gunfight with an active shooter or multiple active shooters. And
now law enforcement has to hit the brakes, and pull back into this investigative
mode where they are scouring the victims in the hospital, people at the scene,
and trying to extract every tidbit of information that leads us to these
targets.

BAIER: Rod, what are you telling the population in San Bernardino at this
moment?

WHEELER: Right now I think they definitely need to be on high alert. This is a
very, very dangerous, volatile situation. And until these individuals are
identified and captured. I think that area out there is going to definitely be
under --

(CROSSTALK)

BAIER: We are getting some breaking news here: active pursuit of a suspicious
vehicle. Our Adam Housley is out in California with the latest on this. Adam --
bring us up to date.

ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Bret -- in fact this just happened in
last minute or so. We're here right by the where basically the entire operations
center is taking place right over my shoulder. And beyond that is where the
shooting took place, the officers tore out of here a minute or so ago and I was
just texted by an individual I'm close with in the middle of this investigation
saying that they're in pursuit right now of a dark SUV east of the city.

It doesn't mean it's the one involved. We have to obviously be very careful in
that situation. But you can hear the sirens possibly in the background. There
goes a police officer on a motorcycle right now.

You're seeing a lot of movement here. We haven't seen a lot of movement in the
last hour and a half other than more people showing up. Here comes actually one
of the police military vehicles -- you're going to see come through here in a
second. I can see it. Here it comes down the street right now in San Bernardino.

You can see some of the SWAT officers on the outside. We know of at least two
SWAT teams that are here, including a full FBI contingent as well. And from
where we're located right now, that takes place Bret, there's I don't know if
we're going to be able to get a helicopter shot because the helicopters for the
news media have been told to stay back because of this ongoing situation.

But I can tell you from where I'm standing, I talked to a neighbor right here
next to who doesn't want to go on camera, who said he heard what he thought was
automatic gunfire about four hours when this went down.

We're the closest you're going to get right now outside of law enforcement. I
want to show you one more thing. Here comes another SWAT vehicle through right
now. This is where the operations are coming from and the command post once
again is here along with federal, state and local authorities, DOJ is here as
well -- all really emanating from here.

You're seeing guys with guns over here and if you go to our right, Lance, you
can see guys with guns running to their cars as well. Obviously this is
something they're taking very seriously.

At this location also, Bret, about an hour ago, a man walked up. They thought he
was suspicious. I'm going to step away so you can see more of this action take
place. A man walked up and he looked suspicious, at least to law enforcement.
Seven officers came over here with guns drawn, took him aside. That's the
situation we're going with right now.

And we were told by law enforcement. They're having to go with the impression
that they're looking for three men with automatic weapons and full military
outfits -- meaning they have armor on. That's what they believe they're going
after. Whether that's true or not we won't know, of course, until this all plays
out but they have to go with that being the possibility or the situation right
now.

So Bret, we'll keep you updated but you can tell things are very fluid here. We
do know this chase is continuing. I have not yet gotten another note. Let me
see, I do have another note coming in.

BAIER: We've got some aerials no.

HOUSLEY: We do have aerials -- good.

We are getting reports that there was a chase of a pick-up truck and then an
SUV. We see one car in the middle -- it looks like a dark SUV in the middle of
the road there. This is not far from where you are -- is that right, Adam?

HOUSLEY: No. That's right, in fact, to give people an idea where we're located,
we're directly east of downtown Los Angeles, a good hour drive or so. Two main
freeways cross here, almost like a cross if you will. We're not far from either
of them and there are a lot of roads around here that lead to a lot of places,
frankly.

I mean you can get to the mountains, you can get to the desert, you can get to
anywhere. But the fact that this is taking place -- in fact, I see another
helicopter taking off. I'm going to step away, Lance. It's not far from us at
all but obviously out of the reach of our camera to see where this is taking
place.

But you can see all of a sudden in a matter of literally a second the officers
tore out of here, went towards those locations. You mentioned, Bret, two cars,
I'm now being told also two cars, a truck and an SUV. The SUV was the one we
were tipped off about first.

Again, it doesn't mean these are the people involved. This is the situation we
have here right now in San Bernardino, really very, very fluid.

BAIER: Ok. Well Adam -- thank you. We'll head back as soon as we get some more
information. Trace Gallagher is in our West Coast newsroom. He may have some
more information about the breaking story that we're seeing now and this police
action -- Trace.

TRACE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Bret, this is in south San
Bernardino. What happened here is there were scanner shots fired in this case.
And we're being told on scanner traffic that one person is down here. This was a
chase that lasted for several miles that had the California Highway Patrol as
well as the San Bernardino police involved in this thing and the sheriff.

This thing went on and then one person apparently got out of the car and was
tackled by four police officers and then there were reports shot being fired out
the back window toward police and apparently police have now returned fire.

We don't know, but you can see right there, clearly there is gunfire out of all
windows, police on all sides and we now know that one person is down.

If you go back earlier, Bret, you have to remember, it was initially said to be
a black Yukon that they were looking for. We don't know what this car is right
now. But it appears not to be a Yukon. This, this car might have had Utah plates
according to scanner traffic but they were wanted inside men. One of them got
out. And then they opened fire and then apparently police have returned fire
because all the windows in this case are blasted out.

They have just called for a gurney and ambulances. We don't know if any police
were hit when the suspects or suspect inside the car opened fire. But clearly,
they were firing from both sides and now at least one person is down. But again,
we do not know if this is connected with the shooting earlier in San Bernardino
that happened some four hours and 15 minutes ago but an awfully big coincidence,
if it's not -- Bret.

BAIER: Yes. We're looking live here on the street there and you see the SUV in
the middle. It does look as you said, gun-riddled and there are police officers
staging right outside there. We are on a delay here just for everyone to know.
And we will monitor this situation as it develops as you see the news helicopter
pulling out a bit.

Joining me on the phone again, Matt Graham, who has experience with SWAT units
and obviously surrounding dangerous situations like this. At this moment, what's
going on -- Matt? And what -- what do you see and how they're staging this?

GRAHAM: Well, what's going on here is they're working everything to restrict the
mobility of what's going on. Once the vehicle is stopped, you have to restrict
the mobility of those people inside the vehicle and the vehicle itself.

So what you don't want to do, it's the basic containment issue. You want to
contain that event and make sure that the vehicle itself or the people in that
vehicle don't again become mobile whether it be getting into other vehicles or
getting out and just fleeing on foot.

It appears as though obviously there's been an exchange of gunfire back and
forth which puts it in the advantage of law enforcement in that response due to
the sheer numbers of people that they have there.

BAIER: Back here in studio, Ron Hosko, is it surprising that this is this close
to the site if this in fact is these guys?

HOSKO: It is surprising. But you have to consider every possible scenario. Could
these guys have put down somewhere, waited for a little bit of police, you know,
to pass by en route to the scene? Thought they were good to go and then decided
they were going to leave that area?

And you're dealing with a situation here where the police are hyper- vigilant
and the offenders, the subjects are hyper-vigilant, too. And if these offenders
saw a police car turn around and start to come up behind them it could be that
they decided hey we're going to shoot right now and try to make our break at
this point rather than just be calm and hope that that police officer goes by.

BAIER: Ok. Rod -- I'm not seeing any activity in this SUV. I'm seeing a lot of
staging on the other side. Your sense of what's going down here?

WHEELER: Well, the main thing the police are trying to determine now is whether
or not there's any booby-traps associated with that vehicle. That's why they're
not running up to the vehicle, even though it appears as though who was ever
inside the vehicle has been disabled.

They need to make sure, they're going to probably bring in the bomb squad to
walk up to that vehicle and maybe even send in a robot or something like that
because oftentimes in these situations there's a back- up plan by the bad guys.
In this case maybe they have that vehicle wired or something so as soon as law
enforcement gets there, it blows up. We don't know. And that's why again you
don't see law enforcement just running up to the vehicle -- Bret.

BAIER: Yes.

HOSKO: And there was just movement in the front seat too. There was something
moving in the front seat.

BAIER: Trace Gallagher monitoring all the traffic in law enforcement. Trace --
anything else?

GALLAGHER: Yes just to give you an idea, Bret. We do believe that there is still
one person inside the car and now at least one person on foot running away. And
we're being told from police they're calling for medical aid because they
believe an officer has been hit and is down.

So now you have an officer down, at least one of the suspects -- again, unclear
if this is one of the suspects from the earlier shooting -- one of the suspects
down. Another suspect appears to be inside the car. And what they're moving
towards that car or will be soon is something called the bearcat. That's kind of
a barricade --

BAIER: We're seeing -- seeing that now.

GALLAGHER: -- car, vehicle if you will, yes. So the bearcat is moving up there,
trying to see if this other suspect is wounded or incapacitated. And they're in
a different scene that you can't see on the helicopter, Bret. They're looking
for a man who is now running away from the scene.

They have asked for urgent medical help and a police escort for the bearcat
because apparently one suspect is still alive inside the car. One is down. One
is on the run.

We knew there were at least three. There might have been more. We earlier saw
another suspect being converged on by police. Is there four? Are there four
suspects? That's unclear right now. Clearly there are three suspects that have
been or were inside this car.

BAIER: Yes. And we should point out -- we're waiting for a news conference
obviously at the top of the hour. It did not happen because things were
happening quickly. And this chase ensued.

We are starting to see some movement now there on the street. Matt Graham, still
with me, SWAT officer and instructor at Graham Combat -- this is going to move
quickly or are they going to take their time here -- Matt?

GRAHAM: It depends on when the last round was fired if from inside the vehicle,
people are still actively engaging or have the ability to engage. It's going to
go a little slower.

The presence of the bearcat can speed it up a little bit. That's an armored
truck that their team is able to deploy from and work in and out of and it's
kind of a buffer between you and the threat. You always want to put something
between you and the hurt (ph) so they're putting the bearcat between them so
they can start to work with that.

It also gives them the advantage of getting up and over the vehicle. Being able
to see down into the cab of that vehicle and engage if they need to while either
making an approach or like Rod said coming up to clear it for explosives.

BAIER: Now, what about keeping someone alive in that car? As we wait for this
news conference that is getting ready to start here. Let's head there. I'll
finish up that thought when we get more information here from San Bernardino.
Let's listen in.

VICKY CERVANTES, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE DEPARTMENT: Ok. My name is Vicky
Cervantes. I'm a sergeant with the San Bernardino Police Department.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Can you step up please? You've got to step way close.

CERVANTES: How's that. Ok. My name is Vicky Cervantes. I'm a sergeant with the
San Bernardino Police Department.

Just an update for you: The number of wounded has increased to 17 at this point.
The number of fatalities has remained at 14. We have a telephone number that we
would like to provide for people that want to be united with their family that
was possibly at the Inland Regional Center today and that telephone number is
800-637-6653.

We are asking that anybody that has family that was at this facility, call this
telephone number first. And the person will advise you where you need to go in
order to talk to somebody to get reunited with your families.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Sergeant, you've got an ongoing tactical situation up the
road here with a suspect down and officer possibly down. What do you know about
that?

CERVANTES: I did hear the radio traffic on that. There is an active scene. I
believe there may be a suspect down. It's my understanding that the officer is
ok. And -- I don't have many updates on that other than the officer is ok.

(INAUDIBLE)

CERVANTES: I cannot confirm that at this point. There's a dark- colored SUV
involved and I believe there is one suspect down. It's very active and we will
update you as soon as we get more information on that.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Just one scene? Just one scene?

CERVANTES: Correct, just one scene.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And only one suspect?

CERVANTES: I only know of one. That doesn't mean that there aren't more at this
point.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And how far away is that from here?

CERVANTES: Probably a couple miles from here.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So can you please repeat once again. There's an active
scene related possibly to this mass shooting earlier. What is going on?

CERVANTES: The only thing I know is there were shots fired. Officers were
involved. And there is a suspect down -- whether it's related or not, we don't
know yet. We will update you as we told you we will update you on the hour.
We'll remain out here and we will update you as soon as we get any additional
hopefully within the hour.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Were any officers hit in the exchange of gunfire between the
suspect and the officers?

CERVANTES: I cannot confirm that. I know that all officers are ok. Whether or
not they were struck, I don't know.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What led you to this SUV?

CERVANTES: I couldn't tell you that at this point, either. It's just -- this is
such an active, fluid investigation. There's so many aspects to it and we just
don't have all that information at this time.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Is there a suspect on the run right now?

CERVANTES: That, I don't know.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We clearly saw the school buses go by. Who's in the buses
--

CERVANTES: That, I don't know. It is my assumption that witnesses and victims
were in those buses. But I don't know if the building is completely cleared yet.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What about the conditions of victims at the hospitals? How
many people are hospitalized as far as you know? And what generally -- can you
tell us what their conditions, are there any gravely critical?

CERVANTES: I've heard that they range from minor injuries, from that occurred
while falling down, trying to escape. And they go up as high as gunshot wounds.
So I don't know their status.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Why did the number go up this hour? Were these three people
that were found in the building, hiding? Where did these three come from?

CERVANTES: I don't know. It was just an update that the fire department provided
us. Ok, we'll be back.

(CROSSTALK)

CERVANTES: We'll be back at 4:00. I don't know. We will be back at 4:00
hopefully with some more and all media coverage will be here at this location.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you.

BAIER: Ok. What did we learn there? We learned that the number of wounded has
gone up to 17, fatalities still at 14. There is this ongoing situation that
we're looking at live.

And what's happening now is that these vehicles, these bearcats have basically
pinned in the car in question. We're told that one suspect is down. All officers
are ok despite the radio traffic that one had been hit but apparently they're
saying they're all ok.

We have another report that one suspect is detained, one down. Is Trace
Gallagher still with me out there -- Trace?

GALLAGHER: Yes, Bret. The officer we talked about earlier apparently was hit by
a ricochet bullet and apparently will be ok. The scanner traffic said when these
bearcats pulled up. They were going in to check on the quote "bodies," plural,
"bodies inside the car". That apparently is what they're doing right now.

The other suspect we can tell you was still on the run because they continually
give the location update of that third suspect who is running away. And at one
point they were describing how the suspect was taking off clothing. Taking off
his camouflage gear and continuing to run.

They are now converging on that suspect who was at last check, at a church about
three or four blocks away from the scene you're seeing here. The police officer
said this was a couple of miles down the road. This is about one mile from where
the shooting happened earlier at the regional center where the 14 people were
shot and killed.

And now you can see officers have gotten the car, the SUV surrounded. This
appears to be in connection because nobody knocked it down at the press
conference -- this appears to be in connection with the earlier shooting. We're
waiting to find out from police right now if in fact these two suspects inside
the car have been neutralized -- Bret.

BAIER: Ok. Just to reset for everyone as we're looking live there in San
Bernardino this incident happened shortly after 11:00 local time. It's believed
up to three, we don't know actually, three at least according to witnesses,
military style gear, they walked in to this social services center shortly after
11:00 local time in a conference center, where county health officials were
holding a holiday luncheon and opened fire -- 14 dead as we said, 17 wounded.

The gunmen were described as having long guns. No specific identification yet on
the ballistics of those guns from investigators or from authorities.

Now let's go to Adam Housley. He's on the live view joining us now -- Adam.

HOUSLEY: Yes, in fact I'm going to have Lance, we just pulled up to the scene
right here. Lance, would you take the camera and turn to the right. We're right
here on the corner of what's called Tippecanoe -- it's -- Tippecanoe Avenue is a
major avenue out here at San Bernardino. We've been out here before for other
stories and things. It's a major thoroughfare -- that's basically the main
intersection near where the shootout took place.

You can see where they have law enforcement here, you know, ambulance, fire
trucks and you can see some of the unmarked cars that are going through. They've
shut it off obviously for anybody like us or locals who are moving out of the
way to let the people by.

In fact as you can turn the corner here, you can a massive police presence here,
massive also federal presence here right down there. Lance -- can you see the
car down there, shot? It's just out of our reach I think, possibly, we're going
to pull over and walk over there so you can see it. We're right again, here on a
main thoroughfare, Bret. Not far about 1.4 miles by my count directly east of
the facility.

So we're talking really close obviously from where the shooting took place,
about four hours and 28 minutes ago. We're going to get out of here and Lance is
going to walk over there as he gets out of the car. I'm going to obviously stop
the car and do the same thing. Hold on a second. All sorts of police presence as
I mentioned.

About 15 minutes ago is when the assault started to go down, when we first heard
and I was first tipped off that there was a pursuit in progress. That pursuit we
were first told was a pick-up truck and a black SUV, you know. At this point it
appears that they've got just the one car.

Lance is going over there right now, I'm catching up to them-- helicopters,
obviously are above -- whoa. Police and tactical gear all around, Bret. And
they've had, I mean I can't tell you the number of ambulances we've seen that
are on stand by. Police and law enforcement from all over the region -- Lance,
we can keep going. We're walking up here closer. Ok, I've got to --

BAIER: Standby, if you will. We're going to take your live shot as you get
closer to the scene. Ron Hoops is a 34-year veteran of the San Bernardino County
Sheriff's Department. He retired in 2012 as sheriff. Rod, as you look at this,
your thoughts on the day and what's happened.

RON HOOPS, SAN BERNARDINO COUNTY SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT: It's been a really
interesting day and a tragic day of events here at San Bernardino. It's
unbelievable. I don't know what would possess someone to take things into their
hands and create such a tragic instance. I'm watching it as the rest of the
country is and I'm hoping and praying that the individuals that are responsible
for this are actually the ones that they have stopped in the black SUV.

BAIER: Ron, what about that facility, and why potentially? And obviously we
don't know the motive. Three men dressed in tactical gear, long guns and this
social services center. I mean, tell us about that facility, the conference
center and potentially why would it be a target?

HOOPS: It's a facility that the county holds different events in. It is social
services area, and they had mentioned on the news networks, they do -- they do
rent it out for different events.

You know, the motive and why they would pick that facility is unknown, that's
one of the scary things. The motive on why that they would do this at a building
like that is incomprehensible. I mean, it's used by lots of people. It's pretty
open facility. I mean, I know that they have some security guards there, but
it's kind of, it's in a very busy part of San Bernardino. It's just north of the
I-10 off Waterman Avenue, and it's very easily accessible. It's obvious that the
individuals that did this were well-prepared and had a plan. And it's very
tragic.

BAIER: Rod Hoops, thank you very much for your perspective. Former sheriff there
in San Bernardino.

Let's go to the FOX News deck and my colleague Shepard Smith who has been
following this since it all began. Shep?

SHEPARD SMITH, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: -- one of the perpetrators, we believe, on the
ground here in a pool of his own blood and two bodies inside this SUV.

The tactical vehicles have come in when this shootout first happened. This
police car right over here is also shot out. The side windows, the back windows,
and there was a police officer we were told who was injured by a ricochet. But
that police officer is said to be fine by the authorities.

So they've moved their way up here, and since they brought in these tactical
vehicles, they've now begun to stand down. You can see this officer is in clear
sight of this, which suggests to us that whatever has happened here is over.

We know that the authorities said they believe there were three shooters,
"upwards of three" is the word that they used. We don't know whether there was a
driver for this getaway vehicle. In other words, did they go in and shoot up the
police, kill 14, injure 17, and then come out in and drive for themselves, or
was there a driver in the SUV? That we don't yet know.

You can see a man coming out of this tactical vehicle armed out of what amounts
to a turret out of the top. And this vehicle is all shot up. You can see the
windows are blown out and we've been able to see two people inside.

It is clear that before the helicopter and the ground crews got on scene that
there was a wild shootout. We know that they've been searching for an SUV. If
they had more details than a dark-colored SUV they didn't share them with us.

But Bret, of course it's possible they've been on top of this for a while. So
they're coming up on Tippecanoe Drive here and in some way, we'll learn soon
enough, a shootout began, that officer injured by a ricochet, one suspect down
here and two in the vehicle. If there's a third, we don't know about it.

But Bret, you mentioned somebody had been taken into custody. Authorities
haven't told us this specifically but there was reason to believe that they
would have a getaway driver, and we know the initial report from this scene was
that one person did escape. And the earlier reporting is that they had a suspect
in custody. We'll see if that's the case as time moves on.

But as we take the thing full, you can see the positions that the law
enforcement officers are in are completely different than they were five minutes
ago. Initially they were standing back behind the armored vehicles, making sure
not to get in the line of sight. And now you can tell by the body language, one
man on the left-hand side of the screen behind that tactical vehicle shading the
sun as he watches in the late afternoon hours now is what's happening here. I
see no movement inside this SUV.

Authorities, Bret, appear to be of the belief that everyone in there is either
dead or incapacitated. And hopefully they've found the people that shot up that
inland center just about five hours ago.

BAIER: Shep, you've covered a lot of these things. This is now the deadliest
mass shooting since Sandy Hook, Newtown, Connecticut. It is different, though,
as you've been talking about all afternoon. The fact that there was not a lot of
information, the fact that these guys acted it appears altogether on this one
target and then got away until now. So we'll find out some more, but it's unique
in its perspective as far as one of these shootings.

SMITH: And authorities we spoke to us first, the first organized news
conference, said, well, they came prepared, and clearly they did. They came
prepared with long guns. If the early reporting is accurate from authorities and
otherwise they were in tactical gear. There was no information given to us about
their race or really much about them at all, which suggested to us that the
reports they were wearing black masks, clad head to toe in black and
unrecognizable sort of makes sense now.

But the question, Bret, is whether authorities knew more about this vehicle than
they let on in the early going. It's not our belief that they did we say that
because the initial reporting of the SUV driving away came from man who I said
worked across the street. He heard a water truck guy coming running out of the
building and he was, he was armed. And the man said that's guy in there
shooting. So the armed man across the street said, well, I'm going to come
outside and watch this. And he watched a man get into this dark SUV.

From the reporting now of KABC, our network news service affiliate, this is how
this went down. A woman was in her own car, says three cop cars came west. Here
on Tippecanoe Avenue and pursued this black SUV. So they're in what amounts to a
short police chase. The black SUV, people started firing out of the back
windows, which would explain why the back windows of that vehicle are blown out.

She got out of there real quick. But she apparently saw the beginning of this,
police in pursuit, a man firing out of the back of this vehicle so somebody
driving in the front, somebody else firing in the back. Clearly somebody got out
of this vehicle, because we're able to see a body on the street in a pool of
blood. And Bret, I understand you have an eye witness on the phone.

BAIER: We do, Shep. Thank you.

Dory Cohen joins us from San Bernardino. Dory, can you tell us where you are and
what you see?

DORY COHEN, EYEWITNESS, (via telephone): Hi. Yes, I'm on the corner of
Richardson and Colson. And I followed the three cop cars that were in pursuit of
the black SUV. And I followed them for about a block to about Victoria Avenue,
about a quarter of a mile, and then I heard shots fired out of the back window.
And then I made a U-turn and just got the heck out of there.

BAIER: So you saw the original shots fired from the back of the SUV?

COHEN: Yes.

BAIER: And then the police were already in pursuit at that moment?

COHEN: Three police were in pursuit. The local police were in pursuit. And then
they just started coming from every angle. We had Homeland Security here and all
kinds of every police force you can imagine.

BAIER: Where were you today? Were you anywhere near the event today?

COHEN: Yes, I actually I was. Actually I'm a private investigator and actually I
was working up on Waterman earlier today. I got out of there about 11:00. I
wasn't working where the scene was where that happened. I was working on North
Waterman. But I've been in the area. I live in the area.

BAIER: Being a private investigator, do you have a sense from law enforcement
whether they believe they have all of the people involved?

COHEN: You know, think they do. I'm not really sure about that, but they
probably do. I think they're taking a lot of, a lot of energy on this one spot.
I think if anything else that they thought would be going on they would be in
other areas right now.

BAIER: Dory Cohen, thank you so much on the scene there, on the phone. Adam
Housley is also on the scene with another eye witness. Adam?

ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Bret, we're about 150 yards or 200
yards. This is where the shootout began right where I'm standing, right in front
of me where the back window was shot out. Bob Filter (ph) was here along with
some of the employees as well. When you heard what was going on you gave me a
pretty great description, Bob, but what was it like?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: l Well it was chaos. The cop cars were coming down. The
sirens were going off. And right in front of the building we heard a shot. And
it blew out the back window of the SUV. It traveled down the street here about
another two blocks and all of a sudden they started unloading. And it sounded
like Vietnam out here. They were shooting like crazy.

HOUSLEY: Both sides were shooting?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.

HOUSLEY: Did you see how many people in the car, or the SUV?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You couldn't because the windows were all dark. So we didn't
see, but we heard there were three, and they shot one up there, so two are still
loose.

HOUSLEY: Obviously you know what happened about four-and-a-half hours ago just
up the street here about a mile-and-a-half. What's the last four and a half
hours been like, and what's it like when that happened, that timeframe?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's been a little chaotic here. We shut everything down. We
locked the plant up. We locked all the gates outside just in case because we
didn't know where they were at, and then we heard the reports that they were
still on the loose. So we thought everything was under control because we've
been watching the news reports up there, and it looked like the cops were at
ease and stuff like that. And then all of a sudden this happened this afternoon.
They must have flushed them out from somewhere. And here we are.

HOUSLEY: What's that feel like to have this kind of gun battle literally feet in
front of you for this business?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: My heart is still pounding like crazy. It was very, very
scary. Very scary. We heard the shots. I hit the dirt and so did everybody here.
We got everybody down. Flying bullets, you never know where they're going to
land.

HOUSLEY: Bob Filter (ph), appreciate your time, and sorry to meet under this
circumstance.

But Bret, as we run the scene again, Lance, our photographer had the shot. You
can see right here, maybe a couple hundred yards away. Right there is where the
shooting ended, or the shoot-out ended, I should say. But it began where we're
standing. So the glass is still in the street over behind the police car. That's
where the first window was shot out as part of that chase.

So Bret when we broke in with you it's been now maybe half-and-a- half when this
chase began, that's about the time that window was shot out. By the time the
aerial pictures came in that's where it ended up.

So you can see this shootout was rally only a couple of blocks long and it was
very violent as you heard from Bob. We met a couple of people coming down the
street saying they heard the gunshots as well and pretty much everybody just hit
the ground. And I have got to tell you, it's out here as you might imagine all
throughout this area for the last four and a half hours, to say it's been tense
is an understatement. Bret?

BAIER: OK, Adam. Thank you. The bomb-disable unit apparently at the scene by the
SUV. There doesn't seem to be a lot of urgency there. As Shep mentioned earlier,
that perhaps the people or person or people I believe it's two inside were
killed in that shoot-out. We don't have any official information that this was
directly related. However, it's pretty coincidental if it's not. And we expect
to get a briefing from authorities here shortly.

Joining us again, Rod Wheeler, homicide detective here in Washington, D.C, and
Ron Hosco, former FBI assistant director and crisis manager lead. The assumption
here, obviously, Rod, is these are the guys. And the question is whether these
are all the guys.

ROD WHEELER, FORMER D.C. HOMICIDE DETECTIVE: Right. And I think that's going to
be the question for the next couple of hours.

I think the other question that is going to come up and already has come up is
what is the correlation between these three individuals and that particular
building or the county of San Bernardino? Because, as we talked about earlier,
Bret, these individuals targeted that building for a reason.

The other thing that I find very, very interesting from a police perspective is
that this vehicle, the suspect vehicle we're looking at now on the screen, had
not made it further away from the actual crime scene. That's a bit unusual.
Would you agree with that, Ron?

RON HOSCO, FORMER FBI ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: It is unusual.

WHEELER: Because usually in situations like this, their first priority, the bad
guys, is to get as far away from the scene as they can. And for this vehicle to
be less than a mile or two from the actual initial shooting scene really comes
as a surprise.

BAIER: Yes. Your thoughts on how this goes down? First of all, our props and
thanks to the law enforcement who obviously jumped on this right away.

HOSCO: You just stepped ahead of me, I totally agree with you. Whether this was
an alert citizen or alert police officer on the street, because we see patrol
units look like they were first engaged, not SWAT units. So assuming this was an
alert citizen or an alert police officer, pulling up behind this vehicle and
using their senses saying this could be related. This is a phenomenal turnabout
in what could have been days of apprehension in the California area or maybe
across the country. And now it will be incumbent on the investigators to put
this together and figure out, are there other pieces of this puzzle, what are we
missing, are there other actors, or is this small group concluded?

BAIER: Does it look like they're going in? This is part of the investigation?

HOSCO: Part of what they are doing with the bearcats is denying people in that
vehicle mobility. So that's job one. And then you do a very slow, deliberate
clear of that vehicle. And that may mean pulling people out very slowly, whether
they're hurt or not. You want to make sure no additional law enforcement gets
hurt. And the presumably go up and check the vehicle for explosives and make
sure again that something doesn't go bang and somebody and law enforcement isn't
hurt.

BAIER: Let's go back to Shepard Smith in the news deck in New York. Shep?

SMITH: They've been setting this up, Bret, for quite a while. Some of our
viewers may have been watching. They've got this barricade set up. All
indications are, we've watched some video. There appears to be someone deceased
in the back of this vehicle who from all counts the person who had been firing
at the cops as they came on this short drive from where Adam Housley was.

Now they've set up this barricade and a vehicle is pushing it forward acting in
an abundance of caution. We saw a number of bullet holes in the front of the SUV
and we saw what looked like another person in the front, though we can't be
certain about that because, frankly, when we zoomed in on that, the video is
kind of blurry.

There's another person in the street in a pool of blood as well. So if there is
a person in the front here, that's third. And that would account for the number
that they said was at the very beginning.

The law enforcement officers, you know, they appear to think that this person is
deceased in here. They stood down about 10 minutes ago and have frankly gotten
into eyesight of the vehicle, so one would assume they would believe everyone in
there is dead. That said, you can see in the near ground of your picture, the
men who are armed in what appears to be camouflaged just behind the tree in the
bottom left of the screen, have come out with guns drawn, and now they're just
inching forward toward this vehicle. Lots of evidence going to be in there.
Chances are they'll have the Wednesday and obviously shoot-out several time ago.
Soon they'll probably be able to know who these people are and maybe get to a
motive in this case.

But the vehicle, Bret, as you can see is pulling back now. They've gone in,
presumably been able to get a bunch of information, five people on the front of
that thing and now backing off. This is a process, Bret, that might take some
time. The last thing they want to do is mess up now.

BAIER: As we're looking live here, the investigation it appears is solely
focused, Shep, on this area. We're not hearing any other traffic of chases or
any other activity.

SMITH: There's other activity in the area, but it appears to us -- two or three
different locations, but it appears that that's all abundance of caution. We
have reports of a pipe bomb being found not very far from this. Could that have
been dropped out of a vehicle? It could have been. It's on the same avenue.
Whether it's connected, we can't be sure.

We know that someone who was running through the neighborhood has been
apprehended. We don't -- at this point we have no reason to believe that that
person was directly involved with this. The only thing that was sort of left
unknown was when these men left this facility there in San Bernardino, did they
have a driver in addition to what the police believe was three shooters? Of that
we can't be certain yet.

And we have three different choppers overhead on this now, the FOX chopper and
our two network news affiliate choppers, and from all of their different angles,
we believe there are two people inside. But again, it's blurry enough to where
you can't really tell. We watched for a while, there was absolutely no movement.
It's so dark in there that from the chopper shot you can't tell if there was
blood in there, but you can presume that there was indeed.

You can see the police car, which is right now if you're back up to the
right-hand, right near corner of this is where the police car is that has
windows blown out all around it. But it's our understanding that the officer was
injured who was not hit by direct fire but by a ricochet, and now from the
hospital that that officer is going to be, and I quote, "fine."

Look at the left side of your screen now. You see more of these heavily-armed
officers moving their way in. And now a retriever of some kind on a long pole,
most likely they'll put that in there. If I'm guessing, Bret, they'll poke the
people who are inside to see if they're alive or maybe try to retrieve a weapon
before they go in there farther. If they see a weapon, they would want to
retrieve that before going in to take any further action.

I'm sure one of the things you would be concerned about if you're an officer is,
is somebody in there playing hurt or playing dead able to do one more thing.
They don't want to allow that.

BAIER: And they'll be plenty of time to analyze this for politics, but Rod
Wheeler, this San Bernardino Police Department obviously is equipped with those
armored vehicles and they have the equipment and the staff ready to handle this.

WHEELER: Absolutely. They are very well-equipped. As a matter of fact they had a
training session from what I hear earlier today. So they have been training for
these types of situations, they know exactly what they're doing. The approach to
the vehicle was a very methodical approach. This is an approach that they've
used before. This is an approach that most of us in law enforcement would use,
Bret, in a situation like this.

BAIER: Let's go to Adam Housley who has another eyewitness on the scene. Adam?

HOUSLEY: Yes, Bret. In fact, we have all of these guys here were pretty much all
in the area. They were being moved out. Let's see if I can get one of them to
talk to us. You can see part of the problem is these guys have to find a place
to go and do it in a safe situation. These guys were all working here when the
shots basically started right here in front of this business. In fact I have a
couple of -- can I ask you a question really quick, anybody. What did you see?
What did you hear?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Just first shots here. The cops were trying to stop a black
SUV. And we just heard shots and window, the back window of the SUV just broke
off, shattered. And there were more shots down the street here, and then the
majority shots a block away. There was at least 19 or 20 shots.

HOUSLEY: Yes, 19 or 20, you think?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, 19 to 20 shots from shot number one to the last shot.
Yes, it was pretty bad.

HOUSLEY: How many of you guys were -- obviously you guys were shutting the
factory down, getting down low when that happened. That's got to be pretty nerve
wracking, I assume.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Definitely. We were ducking back to the car. And it was
pretty scary.

HOUSLEY: What's this like for somebody who is not from San Bernardino to know
this happened a mile from here you had a horrible massacre, and then to have the
shootout take out right here.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It was scary. And we were cautious with all of us here, we
were all cautious. We had everything locked down. And just to be safe, you know,
we were escorting people out and locking everything down.

HOUSLEY: Nice meeting you. Sorry under these circumstances. Hey, Bret, we will
give it back to you now. You can see all these guys here. There was a lot of
witnesses on the street. And you've got to believe that police are moving a lot
of us back because they want to interview all these folks who continue this
investigation, Bret.

BAIER: Adam Housley there just down the block from what you are looking at live
from San Bernardino. Let's head back to Shep with some thoughts from federal
official activity.

SMITH: Indeed, and I will get to that. If you look in the back left passenger
side of this -- driver's side of this vehicle, they have just pulled what
appears to be a deceased man out of the backseat. From the way they pulled this
person it appears that this was a person who was in the back of this vehicle,
and closer look inside the vehicle, if there is another person in there now, we
don't see that person.

And this just from the "Los Angeles Times." The "Los Angeles Times" is quoting a
federal official who says that the feds believe a man was in this meeting when
this shooting began, a man was in the meeting, angrily left the meeting, then
returned with, quote, "one or two others," unquote, and started shooting.

So, according to the reporting of the "Times," a federal official says one of
the shooters was actually in this meeting, left, and came back with others in
this what is now clearly a very organized event. One person pulled out of the
back of that SUV now, another person dead on the street. And there are multiple
reports in and around Los Angeles, Bret, including that of NBC 4, the NBC News
owned and operated station, that, in fact, one suspect is still on the loose.
FOX News can't confirm that and we don't, at this moment, have reason to believe
that. But I should tell you that NBC is reporting that and we'll see.

BAIER: OK, Shep. We're watching live and watching all the activity there on the
street, but there is also, obviously, activity throughout San Bernardino as they
are trying to determine whether this is it or there are other things going on.

Back with Rod Wheeler and Ron Hosko. Ron, we talked about the investigation and
where this goes. But, until you get to motive, tying all this together is really
a puzzle.

HOSCOW: That's right. And we will see things -- let's assume these are the
players. We will see on social media the law enforcement will be able to track,
presumably they have all been moving with cell phones. They will be able to
track the fact that the three of them are together they were at these locations.
And that they arrived here. So the pieces will be put together along with those
other witnesses in the room if Shepard's report turns out to be valid.

BAIER: Yes. In this environment, a lot of the country is just on edge, Rod. And
we see this. We don't have an explanation for it and there is a lot of cities
that are saying are we ready for something like this?

WHEELER: That's right. I think a number of cities are preparing and have
prepared for active shooter situations obviously. But a lot of this goes back to
mental health. And I don't want to make this into a political discussion or
anything, Bret, but it really goes back to mental health. Although in this
particular situation I find it very interesting what Shep just reported that if
it comes to be true that this one guy was associated with this holiday party or
this meeting, that may be the nexus as to why this event took place today.

And I have been saying all day since this thing first broke there had to be a
correlation between either one or all three of these individuals and that second
floor of that building. Because why? They passed the first floor, went directly
to the second floor, went to the conference room. Why did they do that? Why
didn't they just shoot up everybody on the outside? They didn't do that. So I
you think what Shep just reported is really, really interesting. And I think as
the night goes on, we are going to learn a lot more.

BAIER: Yes, but when you're talking mental health, you've got three guys
involved potentially, that's a different ballgame.

WHEELER: That is a different ballgame absolutely. That may not be mental health
related.

BAIER: Shep, you have got something else.

SMITH: Yes. This, Bret, is not over, sadly. What we now have is confirmed one
dead in the street here, one dead in the vehicle, and there is another active
scene underway right now. According to multiple reports from the scene,
including that of KTLA and KNBC, a man has barricaded himself inside a home
nearby, apparently believed to be another of the suspects in this case.

Remember, one person is dead on the left-hand side of your screen here. Another
is dead they just pulled out of the vehicle. And there is a third person, at
least that we know of. Well, nearby, in a residential area inside a home,
authorities now -- in fact, we have live pictures of this -- no, that's near
this scene. Nearby here there is a man barricaded inside a home, according to
multiple reports. Police have surrounded it and apparently they believe that
another suspect may be barricaded inside this home.

How can we be sure of this? Well, at this point, we can't. But you are looking
live now as authorities are searching this gold colored pickup truck and
authorities standing around it, that's part of a current scene. But nearby is
another location where authorities have reason to believe that another person
involved in this may be barricaded.

We say this because the original report was three suspects, two on the ground.
And the locals, the residents were reporting that somebody took off running.
Very quickly we got a report of a car crash nearby and the possibility of a pipe
bomb nearby which turned out just to be a pipe. And now word that there is
someone barricaded in a home with authorities surrounding that home.

You may notice the chopper shot is pulling out. It's my understanding is the
choppers are looking for this location. It's within a short running distance of
here. They were able to pull the one suspect out of the back here. He is dead on
the street along with another. And they found another location where apparently
they believe another man is holed up.

We don't know whether they are certain that this is connected to this scene. But
we can tell you that residents in the area have been ordered to shelter in
place. Anybody got an exact location of this on the news deck?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Looks like Richardson.

SMITH: Richardson Street at?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Gould Street.

SMITH: At Gould Street, which is very nearby. In fact we have a location of that
here on a Google map. Ryan, go ahead.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This appears to be the location as to where we have been
watching the SUV pinned in.

SMITH: Which is here?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Correct. Gold Street and Richardson Street is a mile from
there. According to KTLA, that's where they are reporting this is happening.

SMITH: And they are working to get a chopper over that. If you walk over to the
big wall you will see they have pulled out for a moment. This is the original
scene. And we are just about a half mile down the same road from where this
barricaded suspect is.

Obviously at times like this anybody running through a neighborhood would be
seen as the suspect. But it now appears that the third, if they were right about
three suspects, someone is on the run. And right now they -- a guy appears to be
barricaded inside a home. Authorities have sent out a warning to people in the
neighborhood I just showed you for people to live there to remain inside their
homes with the doors locked, not to go outside. And apparently we have another
active situation developing now. I'm watching three different chopper shots as
they work to figure out where this exact location is. But, Bret, when we have
it, we will bring it to you.

BAIER: Shep, what's confusing to me is that there are multiple reports out of
L.A. now that say that two of the suspects were shot and one of them killed, and
then one was in custody. But I guess what we're seeing is varied reports from
varied places and we are not getting anything definitive from authorities.

SMITH: That's right. And I think one of the things that remains unclear now is
whether the -- they believe there were three suspects. If they were right about
that the question from the very beginning has been, was there a driver? In other
words, did these three people, we now believe one man came out of the meeting
and then went back in with a couple of others. When they came out as described
by witnesses walking slow to this SUV, did they get in and drive that vehicle or
did they have a person standing by? If so, that would mean one more. We don't
have a way to know now. All we are certain of is that authorities have what they
believe to be a man barricaded inside a home and an order for a people to
shelter in place.

BAIER: All right, Shep, we will head back for any new details to the news deck.

You are looking live there in San Bernardino, California, it is a sad, another
tragic day. And we don't have all the pieces to this puzzle as of yet. We do
know 11:00 a.m. pacific time, it's believed three men dressed in tactical gear,
armed with long guns, went into a social service center in San Bernardino. The
place was being rented out, a conference center, where there was a holiday
luncheon of some kind for county health officials.

They shot that room up, 14 dead so far, 17 wounded. Then they didn't know,
authorities said, where they went. They were looking for a dark SUV. Sometime
later, a few hours later, there was a chase that ended where we are looking
right now. And we're trying to get all the details. Keep it here on FOX for
continuous covering of this shooting. Fair, balanced, and still unafraid.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120201cb.254

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               26 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                           December 2, 2015 Wednesday

          SHOW: FOX ON THE RECORD WITH GRETA VAN SUSTEREN 7:00 PM EST

Shooting in California

BYLINE: Greta Van Susteren, Jonathan Hunt Shepard Smith Adam Housley

GUESTS: Chris Olello, Jesus Gonzalez, Claudia Savaria, Glen Willwerth, Glenn
Willwerth, Ted Williams, Adam Housley, Bret Kelman, David Espinoza, Daryl
Bowler, Shepard Smith

SECTION: NEWS; International

LENGTH: 10909  words


[19:00:05] GRETA VAN SUSTEREN, FOX NEWS HOST: And this is a "Fox News" alert. A
shootout on the streets of San Bernardino, California. Just moments ago, police
firing shots at a black SUV in the middle of the street. The windshield riddled
with the bullets and officer also taking fire, but we are told that officer is
OK.

Police say they believe two suspects are down. One more believed still to be on
the run. But at this critical hour, the critical question is are those suspects,
those evil gunmen behind a mass shooting hours earlier killing at least 14
people at a crowded business complex that takes care of disabled people. Another
17 innocent victims rushed to hospitals.

ON THE RECORD has live team coverage and it all starts with "Fox News"
correspondent Adam Housley live in San Bernardino.

Actually, we're going to go with Jonathan Hunt who is also live on the scene.

Jonathan?

JONATHAN HUNT, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Greta, just about a little under an hour
ago, that black SUV that you have seen was surrounded by police. Some sort of
gun battle ensued. We understand that there was some firing from that vehicle
and as you can see from the pictures of it, if you have those available, it was
riddled with returned fire by the vast number of police and other law
enforcement agents who surrounded the vehicle.

We understand that there were at least two people inside it, possibly a third
one who may or may not be on the run. At this stage, we simply don't know. This
is unfolding as we speak.

Certainly, we have seen one person on the ground laying in a pool of blood.
Another person appeared to be in the backseat of that vehicle. And police used
some sort of device to push out that person who appeared from what we could see
certainly not to be alive any longer.

Now this all began some five hours ago, a short distance from where I'm standing
at the Inland Regional Center. That is a center --

(CROSSTALK)

VAN SUSTEREN: Jonathan, we've got to go to Shepard Smith in New York.

Shep?

SHEPARD SMITH, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: That this is not over. One suspect or
someone believed to be a suspect in custody. Two others dead in the street.
Police speaking live now. Listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE POLICE: Officers that are working this active shooter case
were doing follow-up work when they located what they appeared to be the
suspect's vehicle. Somehow during that contact, shots were exchanged between the
suspects and the officers. One officer was injured. However, he was transported
to a local hospital and it does not appear to be a life-threatening injury. I
believe he is a San Bernardino police officer.

Additionally, some suspects or a suspect has been hit. I believe there is still
possibly a suspect outstanding. So it is still, again, a very active, fluid
situation. We don't have a lot of answers yet. They are still trying to.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SMITH: And here is some of that fluid situation. Nearby, just about a third of a
mile away from this location, the police have now surrounded a church. We can
cut off the news conference now because they are, frankly, not reporting on
this.

They have surrounded this church. And we've just gotten word from a witness on
scene that says that a man came up to him who he believed to be a suspect, then
ran into this building, which is sometimes being described as a church,
sometimes being described as a home. We believe it's a combination of the two,
actually. And police have now surrounded this church.

We believe that a suspect has barricaded himself inside this church. And
authorities are now working to communicate with this person and bring this
situation to an end. So so far we have two dead in the street on San Bernardino
Avenue. One person in custody who is believed to be the suspect. And now they
have surrounded this church area which is an active scene. And we are waiting
for people on scene to give us more information on that.

We have multiple reports saying that this suspect may have -- a member of the
Los Angeles County Fire Department has said that according to the San Bernardino
Police Department, they are getting reports that one suspect may have run across
a runway and authorities have now been searching for that. And this is the
location that they now have surrounded, according to people on the ground.

One man inside authorities attempted to approach. And now they are trying to
make contact. Obviously, tensions are very high. There is no way to know for
authorities exactly how many people may have been involved. Remember, at the
beginning of this, it was first said to be multiple suspects. Then the
authorities told us in a news conference upwards of three. The question all
along has been might they have had a driver for this get away vehicle, the dark
SUV as it was described.

Shepard?

SMITH: Yes, Greta?

VAN SUSTEREN: Shepard, I think the one thing that we have to keep emphasizing
that while it certainly is enormously suspicious that they are tied to this
massacre, which has gunned down 14 people that we have yet to officially tie
these to the actual massacre. It could just be that these are three other
horrible people on the run shooting at police. It certainly is suspicious. But
right now they have not been tied other than the one witness --

SMITH: Actually, Greta.

VAN SUSTEREN: One witness said that he saw a black vehicle drive away.

Yes?

SMITH: Well, the spokesperson for the San Bernardino Police Department has just
said that these are the suspects. The two of the suspects in this afternoon's
shooting were shot and killed in the shootout that happened on the street, which
is un -- here's what's unclear to police, according to police at this moment.

What's unclear to police is whether they have all of the suspects, which takes
us to this church which they now have surrounded. And the person with whom they
want to have contact will not come out. According to witnesses in the area, the
police have now sent out a directive for all people in this area to remain in
their homes, to lock their doors and not come outside. That they believe there
is a suspect here. They have tried to make contact. The person will not come
out. Therefore they have surrounded the building and we wait as they do.

[19:05:56] VAN SUSTEREN: And the police are going to come back in 40 minutes
with another press conference with an update.

SMITH: And actually if you look here, we have one person spread out on this
vehicle and authorities are searching, but that's not surprising at all. Anybody
who might be in this neighborhood if they can't be sure if this is a friendly or
a foe, just as happened after the shooting, people would put their hands up.
They will all be frisked.

Make sure that the area is safe. That the person is not a danger to anyone, but
what we are watching right now really is uncertain.

Chris Olello (ph), one of our information specialists with new information here
on the "Fox News" deck about what we are seeing.

Chris, live pictures.

CHRIS OLELLO, FOX NEWS INFORMATION SPECIALIST: Hey, Shep. So NBC L.A. is saying
that the officers are now relocating to a residence. They are moving their
attention away from that church. They are calling for backup and air support.
It's near Davidson Street. They say that there is possible movement at a
residence and it seems to be what's happening at the moment.

SMITH: So, Greta, it's a very fluid situation. Authorities haven't known from
the very beginning and they were quite clear with us that they weren't really
sure about how many people were involved. But I can tell you this, L.A. County
Fire Department, a tweet from Bernie Deo (ph), a member of the Los Angeles Fire
Department photo unit has just sent this.

Units at 1003 East Brier want air unit to check the roof of these parking
structures. Reports of shots fired in the area of a Chipotle there. So we are
getting lots of reports, Greta, that indicate this is not yet over. Clearly,
authorities are staged here as you can see. Their guns are drawn. And we're just
waiting to find out whether they have someone inside there as I'm sure they are.

VAN SUSTEREN: And, yet, we still -- and while this is an active man hunt to get
these killers of the highest urgency, we still don't know what in the world, you
know, was the motive for doing this vicious act, descending upon these people.

And this was -- the scene in case people have not been watching all day, this is
a business complex which takes care of disabled people, but there was a private
party there today. Is that right, Shep?

SMITH: That's right. We know that they believe there is another suspect. We
don't know the reason they believe that. But they have told us that they believe
there is another suspect. They have told the residents to shelter in place. They
started at the church. There were then multiple reports in the neighborhood of
shots fired. Then now they are surrounding this home.

They've asked for more air units to come in so they can check buildings around
this area. And as you can see, authorities are surrounding this. What's most
suspicious, of course, is if they want to talk to this person and they have made
an effort to do so knowing what's going on in the area. That person has not come
out, that in and of itself is suspicious. So authorities with guns drawn there
in San Bernardino.

VAN SUSTEREN: So far have there been --

(CROSSTALK)

SMITH: Authorities with guns drawn there in San Bernardino.

VAN SUSTEREN: So far have there been any reports about anything that the killers
said while they were inside? Did they say anything as they were opening fire?
Any witnesses come out and say anything?

SMITH: We have no indication that the witness has said anything to authorities.
From the very beginning of this, one thing that we have noted, at least from the
reporting of authorities, that no suspects have said anything through the course
of this.

The newest bit of information has come to us from authorities there on scene and
two different witnesses. One of whom was very specific. A witness who was inside
at the time, and was actually shot, was one of the victims in there said that
when she was inside the room, when one of the people who was attending the
meeting became angry. We don't know angry over what, then left that meeting,
went outside, and then came back with a couple of other people and the shooting
began.

Now, they escaped from there. Was there a get away driver? We don't know. Two
people shot and killed at that shootout on San Bernardino Boulevard. Another
person who was wandering the neighborhood said to have been brought into
custody.

That person was described as a suspect. That is not to say that it's definitive
that that person was connected with this scene. We can't say that yet, because
police haven't told us that yet. But we can tell you that police believe that
this active situation happening now is related to the shooting that happened
this morning in San Bernardino.

They surround --

VAN SUSTEREN: You know what, Shep, it's so peculiar, though, if someone went
into a meeting and was angry and left, where do you go out and find three others
to help you go back in so quickly with masks ready to go. You know, it just --
this seems so -- it seems more planned than just sort of anger.

[19:10:12] SMITH: Well, there is no question. Police have said from the very
beginning that this was clearly planned. They are there in tactical gear with
long guns, black masks on their faces according to multiple witnesses. Though
the authorities haven't told us that with certainty, but the authorities didn't
know the race of the people. So it would suggest that their faces were covered.

This is the location of where the business solution system and this is the
Chipotle, right here where the area that's been surrounded. There were shots
fired in this area. And now they have this area surrounded. And live pictures
over here show us where the police are.

So, there are a lot of different scenes happening at one time now, Greta, but to
the best of our knowledge, there is one person for whom they are still looking.
And at this point, they are looking inside this home that authorities have
surrounded.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right, while they are doing this manhunt, and hopefully, that
this will -- you know, no police officers are going to get injured as they try
to get this person inside the building to come out and talk or submit to arrest.

Is there any information about what this meeting was about? Who was meeting?

SMITH: Well, there are various reports on that, because, it's our understanding
that there were a number of meetings going on at the time. The initial report
was that there were some county officials who had rented this particular
conference room within this center aisle so that they could have some sort of a
Christmas party. Others described it, including authorities, as a meeting where
they would make decisions about things. And that's as specific as they have
been.

Now we know that whoever was in there, escaped and then now they are here. The
background, I think, is going to come together at some point. But you can see
police are moving in right now. They are going past this red colored SUV. The
camera is now moving away to another area. And you can see authorities are back
as far as this for back up.

Something -- they are on the move for something here and they are going in
between these homes. The reports we got a short time ago through our network
news service -- our network news service station, KABC, that residents in the
area, multiple residents have telephoned police and said we see a man running
through the neighborhood jumping fences.

Remember, somebody was taken into custody. But we don't know yet whether that
person was related to this incident. But now they are moving in on this
particular residence.

You can see they have canine dogs here. They are carrying long guns and they've
gone over inside this area that's shaded there by a tarp of sorts. And
authorities have made their way in there. There are more police back here. So
they have three lines of defense. They clearly believe they have someone armed
and dangerous here, Greta. And we will see how this plays out.

VAN SUSTEREN: And, of course, whoever is in there, if that person won't come
out, that person really is -- has nothing to lose.

(CROSSTALK)

SMITH: Well, Greta, they have turned around now and apparently whatever they
were looking for in there they didn't find because they wouldn't turn their
backs to that location unless they were sure that whatever they were looking for
was not there.

So they are searching now house to house after these reports of someone in the
neighborhood jumping fences. They believe they have another suspect or that they
may. They weren't sure about the number of suspects from the very beginning
because how do you know if they drove away on their own or if they had a get
away driver waiting? If so, that would mean as many as four. So they're most
likely acting on the side of caution, Greta.

VAN SUSTEREN: Shep, Adam Housley is about a block away from there.

Adam, what do you know?

Adam can't hear us so we'll go to Adam as soon as we connect with him.

You know, Shepard, seem like they had someone isolated in the house so they
thought, but now they're just checking -- you know, sort of randomly going
through the neighborhood. I get the sense that they don't have a target.

SMITH: Well, you know, that's the sense that we get is that they know somebody
is there and running around. They just can't find this somebody. You can see
they are going into side door of a home here. Now you see the satellite disk.
They are making their way through the back fence, going house to house. They are
looking for someone. The question is will they be able to find this person.

And if you are police officers, how would you know? Have they taken somebody
hostage? What's the situation with this person? There is simply no way to know.
They are flying blind in there, Greta.

VAN SUSTEREN: As we continue to watch this search, this meeting that this person
and we don't know if this is linked to it, but the person who got angry and
left, I take it that the person is part of the meeting. They know the identity
of the person or was a public meeting and this was someone they didn't know?

SMITH: Our understanding is we don't have those specifics. We know that there
was a person who was involved in the meeting -- does anybody have that right
through, John Glenn (ph)?

VAN SUSTEREN: What kind of meeting?

SMITH: Well, you know, it's an environmental health services meeting for the
county. The environmental health services meeting was happening inside this
building. This meeting is open to the public. I'm presuming that one can come in
and give comment, but somebody in that meeting became angry and went outside.

Now this is not to suggest that somebody got mad and went outside and got some
friends and went in to shoot it up. The police have been very clear with us,
Greta, that they believe this was planned. You don't just all of a sudden have
tactical gear and long guns.

VAN SUSTEREN: We now have Adam.

Adam Housley, you are a block away?

ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Greta. We are here about a couple of
blocks away. You might remember, we were live a little while ago down the
street, but they moved us all back and the reason why is because of that
barricaded situation.

Jesus Gonzalez is here with me. He was walking by. And I know your house, your
wife is not far from where this is taking place. In fact, she is hiding right
now.

[19:15:13] JESUS GONZALES, NEIGHBOR: Yes, she is in the closet right now. I
received a call from her, frantic call from her stating that she heard numerous
gunshots being fired. She was scared to come out or nearby because it sounded so
close to each other. So I'm headed over here down waterman trying to make a
right turn -- left turn on to the intersection. I just started seeing all kinds
of police officers, not letting us in the area.

But, yes, she's -- during the call, I kept hearing the gunshots just going off
everywhere. I'm trying to get home and I'm just being stopped from even getting
to the house. And now it's all coming to the matter that, yes, the suspect --
one of them is apparently dead and there's probably another one and one
barricaded down the street.

HOUSLEY: Yes, you know, for people that are not from people around here, this
makes a quadrant to the city, to the east. So the shooting took place on the
street here, Greta. If you were to kind of go to the right of where the suspect
is barricaded, everybody is moving back from there, obviously. We can't get
anywhere near there.

What's it like knowing that your wife is inside. She's called you. She heard the
initial gunshots. Now she knows that some barricaded nearby and she's in a
closet.

GONZALES: It's very scary because she works down the street from where this took
place. And she has been locked in her office throughout most of the day. And
then to be escorted out, to be sent home and then this was right in front of her
house, it's mind wrecking for her and myself as well.

I just feel -- I feel helpless not being able to be there with her and comfort
her and let her know that everything is going to be all right. Right now, she
can't even talk on the phone. That's how scared she is. So she got.

VAN SUSTEREN: Adam --

HOUSLEY: .evacuated from her office, which is near the shooting and then came
home to have the shooting in front of her house.

GONZALES: Yes, sir. Yes, sir.

(CROSSTALK)

VAN SUSTEREN: Adam -- Hey, Adam --

HOUSLEY: But right now tell me about the situation she is in when you talked to
her last.

GONZALES: She doesn't -- she's inside the closet. She doesn't want to come out
of her closet, though nobody has came near the door, but she does hear a lot of
police activity going on around the house. The last she saw or heard was
S.W.A.T. moving in and around in the area.

HOUSLEY: Yes, Greta, go ahead.

VAN SUSTEREN: Adam, let me ask you a question about the shooting. Is there any
indication who -- the gunshots that the woman heard in the closet. I mean, are
those coming from the police or from the person they are pursuing.

Does anyone know?

HOUSLEY: I suspect it was the shootout. She heard the actual shootout in front
of the house, correct?

GONZALES: Right. There was a lot around.

HOUSLEY: Yes. In fact, Greta, I'm going to step away and show you. If you can
kind of -- if we move back a bit from the tape to talk to Jesus, but we were
down, gosh, we were good 200 yards down the street or about a half an hour ago
before they moved us back.

When they moved us back, we thought it was just because they were expanding the
scene. You know, how it happens on crime scenes. They tend to move it back a
little bit so they can talk to the witnesses. What they were moving us back for,
we didn't know at the time, was they just had that barricade situation. That's
when I bumped into Jesus who was trying to go in to see his wife because she
just called saying there was a barricaded situation.

You can see the helicopter circled that Lance, our photographer, is on. That's
the official helicopter. The news choppers are getting a video from a much
higher and further back and zoomed in to allow for the clearance to be able to
use law enforcement down in a much lower level.

You can see some of the tactical teams, too, also down here. What they all see
is they pulled some of the teams out and actually went around the block
basically to go over towards that home. But if you were to go right through
those people that Lance is on right now where the stoplight is. That's where
that initial gun battle ended.

It actually started about 150 yards before we were earlier, where the glass was
on the street so it carried on for a couple hundred yards, that initial gun
battle. And then the barricade situation, if you were looking at the gun battle
from our perspective, it would be basically directly to your right, about a
block or two. So it's all taking place here in a quadrant of the city, east of
where the shooting initially took place earlier today. That's a mile and a half
directly behind our camera.

So you are talking about a very compact area. Here comes another cruiser right
now. We'll get out of the way so that they can get by us, Lance.

(CROSSTALK)

But you can see, Greta, very fluid situation. A lot of law enforcement.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right, Adam, let me go back to Shep.

Shep, sort this out for me. We've got one suspect that's down, shot. We've got
another one that apparently is on the run. There's been a gunfire with him.
Meanwhile, what happened earlier today, where they had this massacre, there was
some sort of meeting and there is a report, but we can't confirm it that someone
was at that meeting or that event, got angry and left and maybe came back and
did something, or maybe it was another planned massacre.

What can you tell me? What -- can you fill any blanks.

SMITH: Yes, Davidson and Richardson right now, the tactical units are on the
move again. You can -- this is less than a half a mile from where that battle
happened that Adam was describing just a few minutes ago.

And these authorities are on the move yet again chasing down leads in this
neighborhood. Here's your background that you wanted.

Denise Peraza, 27 years old, telling the "Los Angeles Times" she said the doors
of the environmental health services office at San Bernardino County opened and
two men dressed in all black, wearing black face masks entered with, quote, "big
old guns," unquote, and started shooting randomly.

Everybody dropped to the floor. It was during their holiday party. Quote,
"Everyone dropped to the floor. It was during the holiday party. The guys opened
fire for 30 seconds, randomly, then paused to reload and began firing again."

Peraza was hiding under a desk when she was shot once in her lower back. She
said the shooters were gone and everything was perfectly silent for about five
minutes so the shooters left, it's all quiet for five minutes. Then suddenly the
doors were pushed open again, but this time, it's law enforcement officers. Lots
of them. And they yelled out, anyone who can move leave immediately and find
cover behind the vehicles.

[19:20:24] Peraza said they were then helped into beds of pickup trucks and
taken to safer location. So bigger picture, Greta. Bigger picture, the gunmen
came inform, one man is in the meeting. He leaves angrily, comes back with two
others, three men in there shooting.

The shooters leave. Five minutes later, the authorities came in. During that
time, the shooters left. Since we've had this shootout on the street of San
Bernardino Boulevard, and now tactical units are on the move again.

When that shootout happened and not one, but two people were left dead on the
street, we were witness to both of them. There were reports that another suspect
had been arrested. Though authorities are not saying now that that person was
arrested in connection with this incident. We'll know in time. And at the
moment, they are looking for what they believe to be another person in some way
involved. This situation is not over. Authorities make that perfectly clear.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right. As we continue to watch this from the helicopter and
all the shots and with Adam on the scene, why did the person supposedly get
angry at a meeting? Did he say anything? And I realize that, you know, there
will be plenty of time to investigate this but while we are waiting for the
police to complete this arrest. Why did he get angry?

SMITH: We don't have that detail yet. We don't know what the anger was about, if
anything. But we can surmise, Greta, that if there was anger, it was part of an
overall plan.

I say that because authorities tell us from the beginning that these people had
planned this and that they were on a mission because they came in, clad and
tactical gear. Had the black face on. They had long guns as described by police
and they know by now exactly what those guns were.

That they came, in they shot for about 30 seconds. This is the fourth or fifth
report from witnesses of about 30 seconds of shooting. Police will confirm that
at some point. And then a five minute gap, and then police come in.

By then, these suspects had clearly fled the scene. In the early going, the
police person -- the police detective in charge said the authorities did not
encounter one suspect. Never had a shootout with any suspects. Never even saw a
suspect. By the time they got into the building and by all accounts, it was just
a matter of three or four minutes, by the time they got there, the suspects were
gone. You can't be that methodical and move so well and so pointedly, without
having a plan in advance and I can assume that that's why police confirm to us
that this was planned and that they came in with a, quote, "purpose."

I don't want to miss the news that's happening now, Greta. You see the man
coming out of the top of this vehicle, surrounded by my count, maybe a dozen
people. And they are working their way down the same street. Another officer
here hidden back behind. Another officer hidden here behind another vehicle.

So as they go on, they are staged all along the way. And, again, we are about 8
or 9 blocks. Correct me if I am wrong, 8 or 9 blocks away, from the spot where
that shootout happened.

And the reason they are doing this, maybe there are others, but one of the
reasons is that witnesses in the neighborhood, multiple witnesses have reported
to authorities that they saw a man running over fence after fence. And as a
result, they've shut down every street. We are sure of it because we can see
these cop cars all along the way. We saw one person being frisked. Anybody who
is on the move now is going to be stopped because they believe they may have
another suspect there.

They could be acting under the best of caution here. But if witnesses and
multiple have reported that they've seen someone jumping fences through the
neighborhood. They clearly have a problem.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right. Well, let's go back to Adam who is at the scene and has
the woman on the phone who is in the closet.

Adam, is that right?

HOUSLEY: Yes. In fact, Claudia Savaria (ph) is her name. It's Jesus' wife and
she is on the phone -- actually, on Jesus' phone right near.

Claudia, I appreciate you joining us. I know it's kind of a chaotic situation.
Explain your situation right now.

CLAUDIA SAVARIA, WITNESS (via telephone): Well, basically, I came home and
because, you know, we were told from work we could leave. It happened like three
blocks from where I work. And I came home and I was getting ready to put in my
jammies and whatnot. And I was getting ready to actually, I don't even remember
what I was doing, and all of a sudden I heard noise, you know, I thought it was
fireworks. And then I thought, wait a minute, you know, with the situation going
on, these are not fireworks.

It lasted at least five minutes. There's maybe like 100 rounds. And I just
thought that's the first thing I did is duck. My dogs were going crazy. Right
now, I'm in the closet. I'm actually hiding because I'm really, really scared,
but my co-workers are actually the ones that are keeping me posted. We're on an
email, you know -- email, so, yes, they are the ones that are keeping me
informed.

HOUSLEY: Well, as I'm talking to you right now, there is a tactical team coming
out, Greta. You'll see here in a second, coming out. They are there, kind of
repositioning because we are not far from where this is taking place.

Basically, this is all kind of a triangle where I'm standing to where the
shooting was, to where she is located as well as the ongoing barricaded
situation. So you, right now, you are in a closet. You obviously in a secure
situation.

You know, what have you heard in the last few minutes? Anything at all? Does
anybody come to your door? I know that they have pretty much the area cleared
out. The homes, I'm told, are secure except for the immediate area where this
guy is.

[19:25:20] SAVARIA: Yes, well, I know that I've actually -- when the shooting
was taking place, I remember I had unlocked the door because I was going to do
laundry so I actually went and lock the door, came back to the closet. The only
ones that -- the only thing I know is that there is one suspect at large.

And, again, that's because of my co-workers who are keeping me, you know,
posted. Right now I know nothing. I know nothing. I don't even want to peek out
the window. It's scary.

HOUSLEY: I bet it is. I mean, we're told by law enforcement that you are in a
good spot. Stay where you are, you know, and don't do anything at this point.
Stay in the closet until they come by.

VAN SUSTEREN: Adam?

HOUSLEY: Yes, Greta, go ahead.

VAN SUSTEREN: Just let me confirm, she saw no one but she heard gunshots. And
she's in the closet and she's getting information via her phone for co-workers.
Is that right?

HOUSLEY: Exactly. She is talking to us right now on her husband's phone. He got
a hold of her. She's obviously very shaken from what happened. She was -- you
said, Claudia -- you said you were three blocks away from the initial shooting.
Came home, were putting on your pajamas when the shootout happened right in
front of your home, basically and then just a couple of blocks away. Maybe,
depending on how you count blocks. We're not talking very far at all. There's a
barricaded situation. You are inside your closet now.

SAVARIA: Yes, I am. Actually, I'm -- yes, I'm in my closet. I barely have any
reception. My dogs are here with me. Yes, I -- my husband keeps telling me peek
out the window and see if you can see anything.

I don't want to peek out the window because I'm actually scared. It sounded like
it was just right here in my yard.

HOUSLEY: No, don't peek out the window. That's for sure. I talked to one law
enforcement official here and he said that what you are doing is the right
thing. They will come and knock on your door and clear you when the area has
been cleared. So definitely stay where you are and hunker down. You are going to
be all right.

SAVARIA: Thank you.

VAN SUSTEREN: Adam, let me go back --

(CROSSTALK)

HOUSLEY: Greta, I'm going to give her back to her husband because obviously
she's scared, but you can tell. Do you have any more questions for her?

VAN SUSTEREN: No.

HOUSLEY: But it's lost. The phone went dead. OK.

VAN SUSTEREN: Shep, as we look at this big screen and look at this situation. We
know that they suspect that the suspects in the area but that is based on any
particular sightings by the police or is this neighbors who say that they saw
some man jumping through the fences.

SMITH: Police have said that they believe there is another suspect?

VAN SUSTEREN: Did they see them?

SMITH: All of our reporting is that local residents have seen multiple -- let me
read it, local residents report seeing a person jumping fences, residents in the
area of San Bernardino Avenue, west of Mountain View should shelter in place as
police activity continues. That's from the San Bernardino police chief.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right, now, you know, he may very well be in the area. I'm
just trying to sort this out.

Now, this woman we spoke to -- that Adam just spoke to says they are shooting
for five minutes in 100 rounds. I suspect that's quite distorted because of her
fear and questioning what went on.

If I assume that if this man was armed that he is running out of some
ammunition. Would that be something that you would make an assumption especially
if he is jumping fences? I don't know how much ammunition he can carry.

SMITH: Well, the shooting itself happened from the -- our indication is that the
back of that black SUV that we saw in the last hour, the shooting began, there
are three police officers who were in pursuit on San Bernardino Avenue, in
pursuit of this black SUV. The back window was broken out. And the suspect began
firing out the back of that window.

At that point, the authorities were able to shoot and kill the person who was in
the back of the SUV. Whoever was driving the SUV, now apparently is not located.
And authorities are now looking through this neighborhood because they have
reason to believe that the person couldn't have escaped the neighborhood.

At the same time, they get reports from neighbors who say they saw someone
jumping from fence to fence. I'm sure one of the possibilities here, now we
don't have any way of knowing, but one of the possibilities is that whoever they
saw jumping from fence to fence has gone inside a home. Maybe his own home.
Maybe someone else's home.

And now authorities have blocked off all the streets and in these tactical
units, they are going home to home, backyard to backyard, guns drawn, using the
vehicles as shelter, trying to find out who they can find and where.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right, let me go to Glen Willwerth who is in the area. And he
thinks that he saw this black vehicle, this SUV drive away from the scene of the
shooting.

Glen, thank you for joining us. And tell me where were you when you first
spotted or first knew of this shooting?

GLEN WILLWERTH, WITNESS: Yes, well, what has happened is my office is actually
facing the Inland Regional Center and I saw somebody run by my window so I got
up to go see what was going on. And a guy rushed into my building looking for
shelter saying that they are shooting, they are shooting at everybody.

So I told him and all my employees shut the building down. Bring the doors down,
lock it up. I grabbed my side arm, I holstered up and I went towards where the
shooting was coming from.

There is water trap that was filling up at a water hydrant right by the regional
center. So I posted up after that just to make sure in between my business and
where the shooting was coming from. About another 10 or 15 shots maybe go off
and then I could -- through the trees there is a lot of heavy brush here, I
could see other than I could see somebody getting into a black SUV. The weird
thing was the car just pulled away very slowly and it started coming actually
right at me.

Parking lot and left out that way. They went very calm, very slow. That was kind
of what set it off to me that, yeah, that was whoever that was because everybody
else is fleeing post haste. They were not sitting around.

VAN SUSTEREN: Now, the person that you saw getting into the SUV, did you see
whether or not he or -- I assume it was he was wearing a mask. Only one person
you saw getting into the SUV or were there others?

WILLWERTH: I couldn't see too much because of all the trees, I could only see
movement. I knew there was a body there I couldn't tell, you know, what they
were dressed like, couldn't tell if it was a guy, girl or anything. I could just
see a body, and then I saw the vehicle.

VAN SUSTEREN: Now, looking at the video that has now been involved in a gun
fight with the police, does that -- I assume -- can you determine whether that's
the same vehicle or not?

WILLWERTH: Well, I didn't see a license plate but the vehicle is identical.

VAN SUSTEREN: Glenn, thank you very much for joining us. I am going to go back
to Shep who has new information, Shep.

SHEPARD SMITH, FOX NEWS: Yeah, Greta. First of all, the authorities are now
gathered near that church, the L-shaped church that we were talking about from
the very beginning. They believe the suspect in the area. This is God's
Apostolic Pentecostal Church. You are seeing this intersection instead, because
authorities have asked that their movement not be shown live on television and
our local stations are accommodating them. Back to the original shooting that
happened this morning, 11:00 a.m. at the County Affairs Building where they were
having a Christmas party.

According to Rick Serrano, who was the FBI and justice reporter for the Los
Angeles Times, the Feds are now theorizing that one of the gunmen was at the
event to make sure that a specific target was there. Police chief confirms the
county group meeting was targeted, not the health center and federal law
enforcement officials say they believe one man angrily left the meeting,
returned with one or two others and started shooting. So just as you were
theorizing earlier, the authorities now theorize that one of the men who was
targeting this particular event or a person in the event went to the event
itself to make sure that the targets were on site, then acted as if he was
leaving angrily, and then immediately came back in with one or two other
suspects. That's how this started.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right. You say the Feds theorizes.

(CROSSTALK)

SMITH: That's right. That's all I can tell you is what they tell us.

VAN SUSTEREN: No, no. I understand, but I am just trying to probe if you have
any more information. Did the Feds say based on what a witness said or just
putting two and two together? Because that's a big difference as we try to sort
through this. He may be right even theorizing it based on the information that
we have. But does he have anything beyond his sort of thoughts about what might
have happened?

SMITH: I don't know.

VAN SUSTEREN: Witness statement?

SMITH: They may very well have witness statements. I can tell you. This they
took four to five bus loads of employees from the building there and they
interviewed all -- as many of the people who were healthy enough to be
interviewed. Somewhat -- was it 12 or 10 had to go to hospitals who were injured
to one degree or another. They have interviewed enough people. We did hear from
one victim who was shot inside the building, who described how they came in, as
far as how the federal authorities theorized that, I don't have a way to know
how they did that.

VAN SUSTEREN: I will tell you what's peculiar about it and I mean -- we don't
have so much information on this. But if you were casing the joint, to go back
and get your pals to go in and to commit a massacre, if you had a single target,
why are you taking out 13 others? Why don't you take out the target at home or
something? This still to me is very perplexing. There are so many missing facts.

SMITH: Authorities have not said whether they believe a single individual in
that meeting or the members of the meeting in general were the targets. But I do
have new information.

VAN SUSTEREN: Is it a meeting or Christmas party?

SMITH: Well, it's a meeting in which they were having a Christmas party
according to authorities. I am sure that those details of what happened earlier
will become very clear at some point. At this point, we are looking at a live
scene here in the middle of the street where there is a victim down on the
ground. This is from the original scene. Now authorities are on the move yet
again. If you notice, Greta, their posture has changed. They're not behind
vehicles anymore. They are not using armored vehicles as shelter which suggests
to me they have new information.

VAN SUSTEREN: You have a big screen, I don't. It doesn't look like they are
trying to protect themselves. They look like they're just walking down the
street to me from here. I don't understand why they keep moving from place to
place in this neighborhood -- seem to be walking not in fear or a protective
position to me, but you have a better screen than I do. You have a big one
there.

SMITH: What we have been watching -- and I am watching from three different
choppers. It appears they get information. For instance, they got the
information about reports of a suspect from multiple residents there going from
home to home, as a result they acted in abundance of caution, used the vehicles
as cover. Then they searched all of the area, went in and out of every single
place there. It would appear to us visually that they have made the
determination that whatever they thought might have been dangerous to them at
that point no longer is for they are not using those vehicles as shelter
anymore. And the L-shaped build on the right-hand side that you just saw before
they zoomed in there. That was the church, the Pentecostal Church where they
were sort of staging all of this.

Now they appear to be regrouping. Think of it in the big picture, this morning
14 people were shot and killed inside the center. Since then, they have had a
wild shootout with at least one person dead. They believe that they have another
suspect out there somewhere, residents reporting they see people jumping over
fences. They are doing what they have to do to try to take this person down and
keep people safe.

VAN SUSTEREN: And just to note to the viewers is that we're monitoring several
helicopters' videos and we're being careful not to show anything too graphic. We
do have somewhat of a delay. Shep, going back to look at this scene, I realize
that we are fortunate we get to go up so close but these police don't look like
they are in an active hunt right now. You know, they don't look to me like they
have got their guns drawn and they are chasing somebody.

SMITH: No. They were but now they are not. And history tells me that you get
these reports, you go in and check out the entire area. At some point, those in
charge rule there is no more danger here. Go about your way. And now they are
regrouping. That appears to me what's happened. From people on scene now, it
looks as if these tactical units have made the block, if you will. The report --
the residents report came from this one neighborhood. They went into every home.
They searched every backyard. They searched around the pools and pool houses and
made their way back to where they started, which is this L-shaped church.

And now that's where the SWAT teams are. Back at Richardson and Gould waiting to
see if they find another suspect. Greta, I suppose it's possible they have
gotten everyone there is to get. After all they have been through, they are
continuing to search. They are telling residents to shelter in place.

VAN SUSTEREN: The only sort of mysterious thing about it is if the active
gunfire in that neighborhood that occurred after the SUV was taken down, you
know, is who is involved in that gunfire. Was it with the police or the suspect,
a shootout?

SMITH: I don't have that -- I have not reported that and I don't have that
information. I have heard others say it but Fox News cannot confirm that there
was any shooting after the shootout with police in the SUV. Past then, I am
aware of nothing.

VAN SUSTEREN: Ok, inside that car, we know that there is one suspect who was
shot -- the driver of that SUV is where? No idea? Or is it possible he is in the
car, possible he is in police custody?

SMITH: Our understanding from police is that they shot the person who was in
shooting out the back of the SUV. Don't have information about that. We have
word that there was one person in custody, but there was nothing definitively to
tie this person to the scene. And we know that there is an active search for
other suspects.

VAN SUSTEREN: I will tell you the person -- what I would very much like first of
all, of course, to catch all the suspects and to make that very safe situation.
But talk to people who have survived this to find out what was the motive. What
possessed 1, 2, or 3 people to come in and massacre 14 people, injuring 17 with
a whole range of injuries. I don't know if anyone else is going to die from any
of these gunshot wounds, but in broad daylight in a center that caters to
helping disabled people, disabled -- disadvantaged children.

SMITH: Greta, we have another scene now. We have an officer with a gun drawn, we
have canine looking in this area. They believe someone is here. The authorities
have made that perfectly clear. And they are working to clear every single area,
see this? They are all over this area and searching. This could go on for quite
some time. Remember, it's only 4:39 p.m. out there, coming up on 5 o'clock. The
sun will be setting soon, and they want to find out if there is someone there
who needs to be apprehended before it gets dark out, Greta.

VAN SUSTEREN: Well, we are expecting a news conference any minute now. And we
hopefully will get more information about whether or not they believe that they
have all the suspects or whether this other suspect in this L-shaped church or
elsewhere in this neighborhood is on the loose or got away some place else is
armed without any doubt. These suspects are dangerous. They have already
murdered -- massacred 14. So we are going to have that news conference shortly,
but it's just stunning, Shep that we are doing another one of these shootings,
isn't it?

SMITH: It is. Greta, I have a fascinating firsthand account from a reporter who
got caught up in that gunfire on the street. I would like to read a little bit
of this to you. This is from a reporter from the San Bernardino Press Enterprise
who got caught in the middle of it. He says he was driving down San Bernardino
Avenue and just crossed Tippecanoe when I saw several police cars going down San
Bernardino Avenue, so he followed them at a safe distance "Then I was going down
San Bernardino I heard a thundering sound. I didn't recognize the sound as
gunfire. And then I heard something strange. A whizzing sound goes by my car and
I thought, oh my god that could be gunshots and I pulled over." He says I am on
San Bernardino Avenue, and then I see cops running in that direction, just
arriving, maybe six of them, and I hear more gun shots. He goes on, I grab my
camera and taking pictures, taking pictures of cops running with guns and all of
a sudden a bunch more gunshots and then I ran.

I made it to the other side of the street and I take cover behind a blocked wall
on my belly and lying on my stomach behind a little short brick wall, and more
cops come over and the cops start yelling at me and pulls his pistol and asks
what I am doing here, he says I am a reporter. How did you end up here the cop
asked? He says I just got caught up in. This we don't know who is out there.
Take your camera and go. So I ran two houses down just east of Richardson, there
is a family here and I have been hiding in their backyard and the cops are still
looking for the guy. And it could last for hours. So that's one reporter's
account of what happened on San Bernardino Avenue this afternoon.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right. And just to confirm, there is no description of any of
these three, that their faces were covered, right?

SMITH: Correct.

VAN SUSTEREN: Nobody -- you can't tell ethnic background, man, woman, I guess
they have confirmed that they are men?

SMITH: They have. The L.A. Times has just reported that a dispute at a party may
have sparked the San Bernardino mass shooting that killed 14 people. I feel like
we will probably get a bunch of reports like this and eventually -- they have
interviewed so many people already.

VAN SUSTEREN: But I don't know if we are all interviewing the same person and
getting the same story about the party. Because, you know, I still don't
understand if it were a party, they probably know who it is. Because parties
usually, unless it's a huge gathering. And one person who gets angry at a party
doesn't go out and suddenly find two people to come back in and kill everybody
unless it was preplanned. If it's preplanned, they had a specific target. You
know, who was the target and why?

SMITH: They either a target of a person or a target of this body that was
meeting in this place.

(CROSSTALK)

SMITH: I don't know. I don't have a way to know. All I know is that authorities
say they believe they are theorizing that these who did the shooting put one of
the shooters in the room that that person then said I am angry. Left the room
and came back with the two others and began firing.

VAN SUSTEREN: I know, but when they start theorizing -- that's the thing that
troubles me, Shep is when they tell us, when they give us information that they
are, "theorizing," because their theory could be just as good as mine but it can
be as wild as mine as well. What they need to do is they need to talk to those
who did survive the shooting who are in a condition to talk and find out what
was said.

SMITH: I know they have interviewed many bus loads of people including all of
those that were inside that meeting, all of them who were inside the meeting who
were not so badly injured that they couldn't speak. We know that. We know that
they have interviewed dozens and dozens and dozens of people already. I presume
they wouldn't give this information to a fantastic reporter like Serrano from
the L.A. Times, the FBI and justice reporter if they weren't pretty sure that
their working theory will lead them to what happened here. They're greatest
concern now is figuring out if there is a suspect where this suspect is.

VAN SUSTEREN: I agree. First, make the streets safe and the area finding the
suspect and we can reengineer what happened.

SMITH: I have just been told, Greta, the 15 minutes from now, the San Bernardino
police chief will be speaking to all of us at the news conference. That's at the
top of the hour, 8:00 Eastern, 5:00 p.m. Pacific.

VAN SUSTEREN: And maybe we will get beyond their quote theorizing. Maybe that's
just a bad word that someone used that has sort of gotten me confused in trying
to determine the facts.

But I am joined here on the set with Ted Williams who is a homicide detective
here in D.C. Ted, your thoughts as to whether or not this other suspect out
there -- what they are doing?

TED WILLIAMS, CRIMINAL DEFENSE ATTORNEY: Well, Greta, we have a very confusing
scene here. I don't know if we can go with theory.

VAN SUSTEREN: Facts.

WILLIAMS: One fact is one suspect down and possibly a suspect out there in the
community.

VAN SUSTEREN: And maybe a third.

WILLIAMS: And a third one. And that is the confusion here. I am very confused
how that's a person in a party specifically with masks, etcetera, so that tells
me that there is some planning. Why would somebody in a party go out, get these
men and bring them back in.

VAN SUSTEREN: And that's why we have make the scene safe there in California, I
hope -- I know they will talk to the witnesses who are there. Jonathan Hunt is
at the scene. Jonathan, what -- do you have any information, new information?

JONATHAN HUNT, FOX NEWS: Well, it appears that this search for a possible third
suspect still ongoing. The police chief did say earlier that there were at least
three suspects. We know the two were taken down inside that dark SUV. And as you
can see from the arterial shots, Greta, police are still going through the
streets about two miles where I am right now. About two miles from the initial
shootings incident of the Inland Regional Center appearing to be searching for a
third suspect. Now it may be that that suspect has gone out of the area all
together. Every single piece of information in the five or more hours that is
this has been going on, Greta has been changing by the hour that is why you are
right to look for facts rather than theory here.

We simply do not know the motive -- we are not entirely clear on exactly who or
what group may have been targeted in this shooting. So far too early to start
ascribing any motive to anybody involved in this. But all we can say that this
is an ongoing and tense situation in San Bernardino where the police clearly
believing that there is another suspect out there. They are telling everybody in
the area to stay, to shelter in place, not to come out of their homes. Not to go
anywhere near that area. So they think there is a third suspect out there. That
is the best we have to go on right now.

And theories, possibly, for the coming hours and days but not for right now as
we still have a possible armed suspect on the loose here in San Bernardino,
Greta.

VAN SUSTEREN: Jonathan, thank you. Of course, we are standing by. There will be
a press conference shortly. We will get an update. Let's go to Daryl Bowler.
Daryl joins us. Daryl, where was your wife during the shooting?

DARYL BOWLER, WITNESS: My wife was in the building next door to where the
shooting took place.

VAN SUSTEREN: And what did she tell you?

BOWLER: She told me that they were in the office. They heard the fire alarms go
off. And they were told by the supervisors to hang around the hallway. I told
her to take her co-workers and go jump into an office and lock the door.

VAN SUSTEREN: Did she see anyone?

BOWLER: They didn't see anybody, but two people that they do work with, one were
shot in the arm. And one was just grazed and had had her belt actually shot off.

VAN SUSTEREN: Now, the person who was shot -- coworker, was she at some party or
some meeting?

BOWLER: What's not being said is that it was the San Bernardino County Mental
Health Services Christmas Party.

VAN SUSTEREN: County Mental Health Christmas Party?

BOWLER: Yes. It was a Christmas party being held.

VAN SUSTEREN: Only for the people who work there or was the public invited?

BOWLER: I don't believe it was a public event. It was just San Bernardino Mental
Health. They do work with the agency quite a bit. And they were just having
their Christmas party down there in the building three.

VAN SUSTEREN: Any idea how many people were at this Christmas party?

BOWLER: No. She didn't tell me. She wasn't a part of that.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right. Now, I suppose you have been talking to -- or been
watching the TV coverage but separate that out for a second. Did your wife hear
anything about anyone getting angry and leaving on the site not from watching
TV?

BOWLER: She didn't hear anything -- they were just moved across the street to
the golf course. Keep them away from everything and without hearing third party
information take everybody's statement without the hubbub of all the talk from
everybody else.

VAN SUSTEREN: Is there anything -- I am not asking you that she told you that
you probably think is new and would be of value?

BOWLER: That was pretty much it, except for, you know, it was a Christmas party
that they aren't talking about on the news.

VAN SUSTEREN: Daryl, thank you very much for joining us.

BOWLER: You're welcome.

VAN SUSTEREN: And we have another witness on the phone joining. I will go back
to Adam Housley. Adam, what's new there?

ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS: Yeah, Greta, we're with David Espinoza, and in fact,
we've -- a couple hundred yards grass on the street to the right just a bit. We
are talking about probably close to a square mile is completely shut down now.
David Espinoza was in this business when the SUV pulled up earlier and you saw
the back window get shot out. You heard the gunshot hit the ground.

DAVID ESPINOZA, WITNESS: It was scary. We saw the SUV not storming by but 39, 30
miles per hour. And think a regular traffic stop and we just started hearing
gunshots, shattered the window from the back. I don't know who was shooting who
first. But we heard about first one or two gunshots and then they passed us.
That's when I saw the suspects -- guys with black hair at the passed us, and
another 50 feet or so that's when more shots rang out. That's when they drove
towards the light. At the corner that's when the majority of shots started
ringing out all over the place.

HOUSLEY: There have been reports they were wearing masks, reports of body armor.
Anything stands out to you.

ESPINOZA: I just saw black because they were inside the vehicle. I just saw
black shirts. No masks. Just some -- I don't know some scruffy looking face with
beards on them. You know mustaches and stuff. That's all it was. I didn't see
any masks. No masks at all.

HOUSLEY: What kinds of weapons did you see? I think it was your boss or someone
that you worked with saw AK47s, did you see anything?

ESPINOZA: As far as myself, I did not see weapons. They were just looking back.
Maybe they had them but I am pretty sure they did have them but I did not see
the weapons on them. They were looking back, they were shooting at the cops'
house and the cops were shooting back in most likely.

HOUSLEY: Basically three different shoot locations, first one where the back
window went out. Second one by the light and third one past the light. A mile
and a half from here, 14 people were murdered, you guys had shut the factory
down, preparing to go home, talked to some of your co- workers. They didn't know
where to go because no one knew where these guys were. Before you guys could
even leave this happens.

ESPINOZA: This happened right in front of us it was scary looking to be down the
street. We were in the shutdown mode and security mode and checking everything
everywhere and just being cautious.

HOUSLEY: What's it like now to know that the barricade situation is over here.
You still have the possibility of the suspects out there. We don't really know
everything. We have press conference happen here shortly hopefully get some more
information. You have a lot going on and basically a one to two mile square
area.

ESPINOZA: Yes, yes. That's correct. It's just something that we should be --
everybody should be cautious about. I am pretty sure everybody was watching the
news like I was coming down here and being cautious about everything. And never
thought it was going to happen in front of us here in the building.

HOUSLEY: Sorry to meet under these circumstances. Greta, you can hear tactical
team came by earlier. We are told -- I spoke to him again. She is still inside
that closet. Going to stay there and the sheriff actually told people now
officially to remain hunkered down until they come to the door. She is still in
her closet with the dogs. You can hear the helicopters above as well, so still a
very active location out here. They have pushed back people in all directions.
We have seen them bring cars out. Car loads of people in some of these
businesses down here.

Maybe living nearby that has been evacuated as well. So as the night falls here
in San Bernardino, still very active understandably. Flashlight is where the
shootout ended. It started about where this white SUV is, the second SUV in our
picture, and then to the right of there. Not too far is where the other
situation is taking place, a mile and a half to the east of where the murders
took place earlier today, Greta.

VAN SUSTEREN: Thank you, Adam. Let's go back to Ted Williams, former detective
here in D.C. Ted, I assume that these were the ones out of them very fast.

WILLIAMS: Shooting like that, you want to immediately leave the scene. But it
seems as though for witness said he saw the vehicle, the SUV not panicked. These
seemed like professionally organized people who knew what they were doing, if in
fact, this SUV is the one that's involved in the shooting.

VAN SUSTEREN: There is only so much uncertainty at this when we are in the midst
of this. It could be that this is 100 percent right and 100 percent the right
people. There will be a press conference, and we are going to hear shortly, but
I hope we will fill in more -- making the area safe is the most important thing.
But getting the witness statements, those were inside the rooms and survived
horrendous massacre will be important.

WILLIAMS: That's going to be very significant. What did people see that was in
that room? You must remember when there is a lot of people see different things.

VAN SUSTEREN: If it's a Christmas party it might have been someone who is
invited. I assume that they are going to know a lot more.

WILLIAMS: Absolutely. They told the authorities a lot more. Greta, I have to
believe along that route, the videos cameras and -- remember, tinted glass.
Authorities, 1, 2, or 3 or 4 individuals involved or more.

VAN SUSTEREN: If there are two dead, we don't know that confirmed in the SUV and
surveillance camera shows that there were two involved in this and not three.
But right now what a frightened community. And she headed for the closet.

WILLIAMS: This is a quiet day out in California, and then for, this to erupt and
then you have 14 people dead, I mean, this is so troubling. But the question is,
the motive. What was it? When you have got a person in the party like this, who
is more likely than not that somebody in that party knew the person who perhaps
left there upset and angry.

VAN SUSTEREN: Usually, you know, there is no sort of usual for any particular
crime, but when it's like one person goes into Sandy Hook, one person goes into
Planned Parenthood. These people and they are usually very evil people but they
are very disturbed on top of it, when you have two people or three people, it's
a whole another dynamic. This is planned. This is a completely different
environment, a different crime. When they come in and shoot up the area, these
are different types of killers.

WILLIAMS: Different type of killers. Remember, it is alleged that they were
wearing tactical gear. So if they are wearing tactical gear that means it was
planned. I have to believe that the person who was initially in the party who if
he was involved and went out and got other people that he was possibly not
wearing tactical gear, because he would have stood out in the party.

VAN SUSTEREN: If he was angry. You know, tying the people to the crime is not
going to be particularly difficult because he left shell casings behind. With
the shell casings on the scene and presumably if they are shooting again at the
police they are leaving shell casings that will match.

WILLIAMS: Excellent and wisely said. Whatever is on that scene, it's now a crime
scene, that SUV, it's a crime scene, and what our law enforcement must do now is
show a nexus between the crime scene and the SUV.

VAN SUSTEREN: Can I just do one thing and just take one second to thank law
enforcement. You know, the law enforcement in San Bernardino tonight, they ran
to the danger. They didn't run away from the danger. And all those people who
are critical of the police in this country, let us not forget that every single
one of those officers is at risk tonight. It's getting dark and they are running
through it, and these people have nothing to lose by killing the police
officers. And all their families are at home watching, worrying about the police
officers, and there they are out there trying to protect the community. So if
anyone is thinking about the police tonight, think about this, they are all at
risk out there tonight and they are doing their job for the community.

WILLIAMS: Thank you, Greta for saying that. That is absolutely correct. Thank
you.

VAN SUSTEREN: Let me go to Shep. Shep, oh, Bret Kelman is joining us.

BRET KELMAN, DESERT SUN: Yes. I am on the ground in San Bernardino waiting for a
press conference to start that should give us the latest information in the
shooting, both the police chief and the sheriff are expected here any minute.
They will probably give us some information on the resolution of a police chase,
the shootout, lots of information about how many suspects is still outstanding
and how many of them caught.

VAN SUSTEREN: Thank you. Bret is with the Desert Sun. We are standing by for
that press conference. And look at all those flashing lights, all the police
responding to the scene. I bet a lot came in from off duty, too.

WILLIAMS: But I do thank you for what you had to say about law enforcement.
There are a lot of brave men and women who ran to that scene, Greta.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right, Fox is going to keep up with the live coverage. We are
going to close up. We're waiting for this press conference, but we're going to
continue to have live coverage on Fox News. Shep has been pounding this story
all day long, knows it better than anybody else is going to be taking over the
coverage from here. But you can see they are lining up for the press conference.
That's all for On the Record, Shepard Smith and the O'Reilly Factor start right
now.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120201cb.260

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                           December 2, 2015 Wednesday

                     SHOW: THE O'REILLY FACTOR 8:00 PM EST

Shooting in San Bernardino, California

BYLINE: Bill O'Reilly, Adam Housley, Jonathan Hunt, Trace Gallagher, Catherine
Herridge

GUESTS: Jim Hanson, Aaron Cohen, Rich Lawhead

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 10814  words


BILL O'REILLY, FOX NEWS HOST: Hi, I'm Bill O'Reilly. Thanks for watching us
tonight.

We have a domestic terror situation unfolding in southern California. All
throughout this hour THE FACTOR will report on the situation which is changing
by the minute.

At 8:00 Eastern time here is what we know in stone. At about 11:00 Pacific time
this morning the Environmental Health Services office of San Bernardino County
was invaded by gunmen. According to eyewitness Denise Peraza (ph) who was shot
in the back and wounded, two men with large caliber weapons opened fire on a
group of people and they shot for 30 seconds straight. Reloaded, and fired
again.

At this point, 14 innocent folks are dead, 17 others wounded. Police shot one of
the perpetrators hours later as somebody fled in an SUV. We still don't know how
many people were in there. We should get updated information momentarily.

Now, a hunt is on for at least one other suspect, but, again, we don't know much
about that. The dramatic events were broadcast live to the nation on cable TV
outlets as once again America is shaken by senseless violence.

We are awaiting a press conference from San Bernardino County and when that
begins we will go to it but, first, Adam Housley has been covering the story all
day and has an eyewitness with him, I understand. Adam, set it up for us,
please.

ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Yes. Bill, I'm going to set it up first
and an eyewitness is going to come over here in a second.

Right now, I can tell you this is basically where -- not far from us is where
the barricade is taking place -- the search is taking place. Right behind me
though as I step away -- that's where the shootout was. So for those who maybe
didn't follow this or just getting what happened here, the shootout came here
about two and a half hours ago or so. Black SUV was coming down the street,
heading toward the street called Richardson. At that point a back window was
shot out of the SUV. We don't know if that was coming from the inside or from
the police officers that were in the chase. It was a slow speed chase really as
southern California goes -- 35, 40 miles an hour only.

And then the police officers returned fire. It continued on to where the
stoplight is, you can see as the night falls here, it's starting to get dark.
It's just passed that stop light where it came to an end where two suspects were
shot and killed.

We do know that basically the area all within the police tape where we are
located about a mile square, Bill, is completely shutdown. They have been
evacuating people out basically for the last two and a half hours that we have
been here.

We do know people that are inside that are barricaded in rooms. One woman we
spoke to earlier is in her closet. She's still there with her dog. We just spoke
to her on the phone. And that is the situation. The helicopters continue to
circle as well.

So, Bill, as you can tell it's very fluid out here. You know the situation.
That's the situation we are in.

O'REILLY: Ok. This is exactly what happened in the Boston Marathon case when
they were chasing the Tsarnaev brothers and we had to be live and things can
happen.

Now, you just said that two suspects were shot by police. We're getting
conflicting reports on that. Are you positive it was two shot in the SUV?

HOUSLEY: We're not positive, Bill. As you know again, very fluid. In fact
David's coming over right now, the witness, I'm going to have him tell you what
he saw because what's amazing about this, Bill, is you have a situation a mile
and a half from here where the actual murders took place, literally if I was to
drive straight through this camera a mile and a half, that's where the initial
14 people were killed. And then the shootout happened here.

David come on in. David was in this building right here, Bill. And so these guys
were on lockdown, they were actually shutting the factory down. I mean the whole
town of San Bernardino is shut down. We're talking a pretty big city. And people
were going home and at the same time a lot of the streets were empty as more
units come out right now. There's an unmarked coming out.

David, explain to Bill what did you see you? I mean you were outside and all of
a sudden you heard the gunfire.

DAVID, WITNESS: Yes. We just heard the gunfire, a black SUV driving fast by in
front of us. The windows were breaking from the back. I don't know if the
suspects were shooting back at the cops or cops shooting back at them. But we
just heard shots and we just took cover. Just took cover in back of the car that
was in front of us.

And then when they passed us, when they passed us, maybe about 30 or 40 feet
after they passed us, more shots rang out and that's when we really took cover
good. When they passed us that's when I saw the suspect.

HOUSLEY: Right. You said you saw them. They had scruffy faces --

DAVID: Scruffy faces, black -- short black hair. And they were looking back. I
did not see if they were pointing at something at the cops. But most likely they
were because -- they were getting shot at.

HOUSLEY: And then all throughout the day we heard and you probably heard it here
because you guys were listening and watching television as well that they were
wearing black and that they looking for three men wearing all black. And that's
what you saw?

DAVID: Yes, that's what I saw. I saw them, they had like black shirts on or
black sweaters on or something black.

HOUSLEY: So there's some conflicting reports whether or not -- and we're waiting
for a press conference and hopefully they'll tell us whether two were killed
there or not. How many did you see inside that SUV.

DAVID: I saw two. I don't know if there was a third one in the back. I don't
know but I only saw two in the front. I saw two in the front.

HOUSLEY: Two in the front. I want you to give me an idea, too. As you see all
this police activity, you saw the shootout right in front of you only a few feet
away -- what's that kind of feel like?

David: It's like something surreal, like it's not happening. It's you see this
in movies or you see this at other places and what's happening in the world or
in our country here and now it's happening here in front of the media or in
front of us here and it's unbelievable.

HOUSLEY: Right. So Bill as you can tell, we hope that that press conference will
helped clear some of the things when you ask officers here.

O'REILLY: All right. I have got a couple of questions for David. I've got a
couple of questions for David.

DAVID: Yes, sure. Of course. Go ahead.

O'REILLY: All right. First of all, did you see any bodies being removed or any
people being removed from the SUV after the shootout? Did they take away, the
police take away anybody from the car?

HOUSLEY: You were down there for a while. Did you see -- any bodies been pulled
out of that SUV before you as you're moved backed?

DAVID: No, no. The first shootings happened here. The main shooting --

HOUSLEY: 100 yards further?

DAVID: At least -- no, I didn't get to see any of that.

HOUSLEY: Ok. The main shooting is the Bill it was actually three spots. Just
about maybe 100 yards from where I'm at that's where the first window was shot
out and right in front of David is where the main, second main shootout happened
and then about 100 yards past David, 150 yards past David is where it ended. So
you had it right in the middle of the three locations?

DAVID: Yes.

HOUSLEY: Do you have another question -- Bill?

O'REILLY: No, thank you, David. We appreciate that. I have got a couple of
questions are for you, Adam.

HOUSLEY: Sure.

O'REILLY: Now, the law enforcement at this point has to know who these guys are.
They've had them in custody I think for about two hours now, would that be
accurate -- two hours?

HOUSLEY: Yes, roughly. Roughly two hours.

O'REILLY: All right. So if they are not both dead and even if they are dead they
probably know who they are. Law enforcement is not really talking to you or any
other reporters. All the information was funneling through these press
conferences, correct?

HOUSLEY: Correct. I mean they have given us little bits and pieces. I will give
you an example. Before this -- when we first heard about this chase we were over
at a different location with a couple of other correspondents based on some
railroad tracks Bill that was directly across from where the shooting took
place. We were there by ourselves actually, and a still photographer.

When we were there I had someone tell me hey, you know, we're looking for three
guys -- we have to go with the idea we are looking for three men with tactical
gear and they said AK 47s. That's when the law enforcement guy said that's what
we are looking for.

Now, if they officially wouldn't say that, so then as I'm there. I get tipped
off in text, hey we are in chase. We are in chase -- a black SUV. And so right
away within a second of me getting that text where we were was basically the
main center of where the FBI was, the bomb squads teams were right where we were
by those railroad tracks they took off. I mean it was like unit, unit, unit --
go, go, go. The tactical teams took off. We jumped in the SUV, we drove here.

So they had given us a little bit of information but yes, a lot of the main
stuff are there two bodies in the SUV that have been pulled out. I mean stuff
like that. Are there just three suspects? They are not narrowing it down for us.
We are getting little bits and pieces basically.

O'REILLY: Now, right now is there a dragnet by you? Are there police helicopters
all over the place and are there house-to-house searches going on right at this
moment?

HOUSLEY: Absolutely. The house-to-house searches you can no longer see because
we got moved back. There is only one helicopter though. And you are not going to
see it tonight unfortunately. The news helicopters which you get some of the
video on from the air -- they have been moved back up to get out of the way and
of course at times are told not to show certain scenes especially if it was a
tactical situation and they listen, of course, and follow law enforcement in
that situation.

So there is one helicopter up we know that is law enforcement related. And there
are, yes, house to house searches going on. We do know, Bill -- I talked to one
woman earlier on the phone before her phone went dead, she has been in the
closet now for two hours since she heard the initial gunfire with her dogs. And
she has been told to hunker down.

O'REILLY: Yes, everybody's frightened but as an experienced reporter, you know
and I know that if there was a dragnet going on there would be more than one
police helicopter in the air and the lights would be on, the spotlights would be
on and there would be much more intensity even where you are right now. There
would be sirens going in and out.

(CROSSTALK)

O'REILLY: Because that's the way that these things are conducted. It tells me
that I think the police know what the disposition of the case is going to be.
That's speculation -- I don't like to do it but it's educated speculation. You
just don't have one chopper on a crime of this magnitude, you have got five.
Because it's L.A. County, L.A. County, it's San Bernardino County, it's FBI,
it's a whole bunch -- it's a joint force trying to get these guys under control.
Correct?

HOUSLEY: Yes. It's a massive force. I mean I would agree with what you're saying
about the dragnet situation. The only caveat I might bring in Bill is obviously
in a situation like this if there are only three main suspects, if two of them
are dead behind me and there's some speculation here and there is one barricaded
-- there's a whole another line of cop cars will be coming in here in a second
you will see over my shoulder.

If that is the case, there are just three suspects you know they're going to be
looking at possible other connections here. Where did they get the weapons from?
Are there other people maybe not as involved obviously not as involved as active
shooters? So you do have that dragnet taking place as well.

And in this situation I think what they are trying to do is that ensure that
they have -- if there were three, if they have those three completely either
surrounded in one house and dead or if they are missing somebody. There has been
a lot of different calls coming in as you know Bill in these different
situations. I have heard them on the scanner myself today of so and so running
this way, so and so running that way. They have to really respond to those, too.

O'REILLY: Absolutely. Now what are the warnings to the people in the community?
That will tip you off as well as to the intensity of right now. What are the
warnings? Are they saying you can't go out of your house now? You can't drive on
the street now? What are they saying?

HOUSLEY: Well, San Bernardino is a big area. I will say the streets that I have
seen are not as crowded as they normally are this time of night. A lot of people
staying in, watching what's happening, staying out of the fray.

I will say that beyond this police tape and this police tape -- this basically
quadrant of an area, it's up -- I'd say a mile square -- it's a massive area
they've now moved back to with the shootout being right there and the search
basically being right over there.

That whole area people have been told to stay in place. They have been told to
stay in place like that woman who was in the closet.

O'REILLY: Right.

HOUSLEY: The sheriff has said, stay in place, we'll come to your door and we'll
tell you when it's safe.

O'REILLY: Through the local news, the authorities have said in this area where
you are, don't go outside. They have issued an order not to go outside -- is
that correct?

HOUSLEY: Exactly. And also, the reason why this press conference is late, too,
Bill, I was told by federal source that I'm close with is that this obviously
changed. They wanted to have the 8:00 Eastern press conference. This whole
situation and the ongoing situation that apparently is taking place with the
barricade, if that, again, is still ongoing, that is what's pushing them back a
bit. This is very fluid as you know, Bill.

O'REILLY: Ok. So they are trying to compile the new information to bring it to
the nation.

Now, Adam, I would like you to stand by, obviously we are going to go back to
you when anything happens.

But I want to bring in two people right now who are experts in counter
terrorism. Have some information that's important. First is Aaron Cohen in Los
Angeles and then Jim Hanson in Washington, D.C.

Jim, let me begin with you because you know something about one of the suspects
I understand? Tell us.

JIM HANSON, CENTER FOR SECURITY POLICY: Across the police scanners, Bill, the
name Faruq Saeed came out as the suspect who went into this meeting/holiday
party, left angrily and they believed was the one who came back and initiated
the shooting.

O'REILLY: Do we know anything about Faruq Saeed? Do we know anything about him?

HANSON: There is a lot of work being done. It's not that uncommon of name. So
there's work being done to see if there are any connections between him, where
he may be going to mosque, are there any other indicators that this was an
Islamist jihadist type of attack.

O'REILLY: All right. We have got to be very careful here, Mr. Cohen -- very,
very careful. If it is a terrorist attack generated by fanatical Muslims it
becomes an international Paris-type story with implications for the President of
the United States on down. So we don't want to speculate.

But, do you have any information for us at all tonight, Mr. Cohen?

AARON COHEN, SECURITY EXPERT: I train active shooter law enforcement around the
country -- Bill. And my sources have also said that there has been an Islamic
name that was released and that's been given out as far as one of the attackers.
Compounded with the fact that the attackers went to a specific place for a
specific reason with the type of tactical gear that would allow them to create
maximum damage and then leave also leads my sources to tell me that this could
be potential international-related terror attack due to those specific things
that I'm hearing from my sources on the ground. Again, these are people that I
train specifically an active shooter -- so this is what I'm hearing.

O'REILLY: Ok. The problem with the story right now is that San Bernardino
County, well, a fairly sophisticated area, is not New York City or Los Angeles
or Washington. And this facility that these men intruded upon, this is kind of
just a regular neighborhood facility. It doesn't look like, you know, a
statement that ISIS would make or something like that.

Again, we are speculating but I wanted to get both of your opinions on that.
First you -- Mr. Hanson.

HANSON: Bill, America is one giant soft target. So the idea if ISIS wants to
create the most fear, hitting us in places that are not iconic is the best way
to do it. It brings everyone into play and we are all now in play.

So I think if this is an attack and they don't have to be tied to ISIS. They can
be inspired by ISIS. They can just be people who believe that jihad commands
them to kill the infidels and doing that anywhere even if they are doing it in
the furtherance of a personal beef, leads them to paradise and that's what they
are looking for.

O'REILLY: Ok. Now, Mr. Cohen, we were going to do a report tonight with Rudy
Giuliani which of course we are not doing now because of the breaking news
situation that said a study out of George Washington University in Washington,
D.C. pinpointed 300 social media people affiliated with ISIS and 71 ISIS people
have been arrested in the U.S.A., those 300 in America as well.

So, they are already here. And I think all the counter terrorism experts know
that, correct?

COHEN: That's absolutely correct, Bill. The online radicalization has been
ongoing for several years. ISIS is a terrorist group that has mastered the use
of the Internet just the same way celebrities use it to create, you know, their
careers in the media for music.

And what we have seen now is how easy it is for ISIS to almost one up al Qaeda.
Al Qaeda is not going to be able to outdo 9/11. But ISIS knows that they can be
very successful with incredible low sophistication and that there is a pool of
potential talent for them to tap into right here in this country against these
soft targets like we're seeing in San Bernardino.

O'REILLY: Yes. Well, we don't want to -- again, we don't want to carry it to a
conclusion because we don't know.

But, I want to get back to Faruq Saeed, Mr. Hanson. You heard the name again
over police transmissions, correct?

HANSON: Yes. I did not hear it but the sources we spoke to who reported that
from L.A. said that was the name that went across the police networks and that
was how they started the search for the suspects.

O'REILLY: Ok. What sources were they?

HANSON: They are focused in law enforcement. I don't have their names that I can
give you right now.

O'REILLY: If that information filtered it's way to you, how did that happen?

HANSON: That came across because the people who heard it were on the scanners,
part of the actual tactical effort to find these shooters.

O'REILLY: Ok. But how would you know that?

HANSON: I know that because we spoke to them.

O'REILLY: And you spoke to them, why?

HANSON: Because we were attempting to find out A, were there any names in play
and B once we could get a name like this, was there any way we could find any
social media or other things that might lead us to believe that he left a
suicide note or he did one of the other indicators of jihadist attack. They are
prone to doing those final video episodes.

O'REILLY: All right. So when you heard the name Faruq Saeed? Did you check him,
did you run him down, did you find anything about him?

HANSON: We have not yet. Like I said it's a common enough name that no one that
I'm aware of has yet come to a definitive answer. At this point, it's only a
name that was heard over the police scanner. It has not been confirmed. Perhaps
at the press conference they might do that.

O'REILLY: No. But I mean look, everybody is trying to find out whether this is a
domestic terrorism like Charleston, South Carolina where just an irrational,
crazy person goes in and shoots up a church full of people; or whether it's
Islamic terrorism because then the story becomes international.

It becomes a story where, ok, here they come -- all right. This is number one.
And, we have some information I want to give to the folks right now. According
to the "Washington Post", they are reporting this evening that a local law
enforcement official confirms that ATF agents found what is believed to be a
pipe bomb on one of the suspects. The officials said the FBI is also looking
into that case.

So now we have Mr. Cohen, reports of big weapons, gear, that I guess you could
buy anywhere and a pipe bomb which I guess you could make. Does that give you
any clues at all?

COHEN: Yes, it gives me a lot of clues. One, if you look at the actual vehicle
takedown that was transpiring when the bear cats were blocking in the SUV. It
was obvious from watching the footage as well as from my sources and, again,
these are I have been very close to southern California law enforcement for many
years and I get text messages from these guys because they want to make sure
some of this information gets out in their own quiet way if you will because we
communicate Bill in the tactical community.

I have been a reserve deputy for nine years and a SWAT instructor. We are always
texting and keeping abroad. So the SUV -- the tactics that were being deployed
were specifically tailored for what we call a slow and deliberate clear which
meant that there was an explosive or a very strong possibility of an explosive
on one of those persons in the vehicle.

And from my sources, I'm hearing it was two suspects in the vehicle, who had
been engaged in by law enforcement. You can tell from the shrapnel and the
bullet holes in the front windshield, Bill and that the robotics and that the
clears were dedicated at removing an actual improvised explosive device from one
of the suspects in that vehicle.

O'REILLY: Does this have the earmarks or fingerprints of any particular
operational organization? All right. So I'm asking the question again because
you have a dual scenario here. You can have homegrown terrorists that we saw in
Boston, Charleston -- where they are just haters and they go in and they kill.

And then you have the organized Islamic jihadists. Does this tell you anything,
Mr. Cohen, the information that you have given us? Does it lead to one way or
the other?

COHEN: Yes, it does, Bill, it leads me to believe that there is a very strong
connection in my professional opinion to Islamic motivated international terror.
The reason why is because it has the same prints as the Bataclan-style attack
where Salah Abdeslam opened fire on a group of innocents well-prepared,
well-equipped armed with Kalashnikov rifles that are very easy to get in and
then left and retreated to Belgium where he then was able to either continue on
with carrying our terror or until he was engaged.

So you have this group of subjects who performed a very similar type of attack.
They went in. They opened fire and they left and they did it, Bill, in under
five minutes. That means there's premeditation.

O'REILLY: You are drawing parallels from San Bernardino to Paris, Mr. Cohen.
That's what you are doing right now?

COHEN: Absolutely. Absolutely.

O'REILLY: Do you concur, Mr. Hanson?

HANSON: Without a doubt. I think this absolutely has the earmarks of same type
of attack. But even more scary, Bill, is the fact that this has the ability to
happen anywhere. This doesn't have to be internationally inspired because they
have seen how to do it. They know how to do it.

We had the Boston Marathon guys. We had Major Hasan at Fort Hood. This has
happened before in the United States. But now we have got foreign groups like
ISIS calling for it to happen, inspiring people in the United States who are
already here whether they infiltrated as ISIS operatives or whether they simply
were radicalized in a mosque that's preaching jihad or did it themselves online.

They could be anywhere. They are among us. And consequently that makes all
Americans targets. And this is going to become a bigger problem and more of this
is going to happen.

O'REILLY: Yes. And it's impossible to stop in a free society. But if these
individuals who killed the 14 people and wounded 17 others are found to have
ISIS ties. And you know, obviously they will go over their computers, they'll
look at their backgrounds, they'll find out how they got in here, who they
associated with. The FBI is excellent at that.

Then, the pressure now becomes on more to take ISIS off the map. So that's that
story. If it's a Boston Marathon two crazy brothers who think they are going to
kill innocent people and advance the cause of jihad then the story takers on
another angle in the sense that you can't stop it in a free society. You just
can't. And unfortunately that is what the case is.

Now, Mr. Cohen, you have made your reputation in Israel, correct?

COHEN: Correct. I served in Israel's counter terror unit.

O'REILLY: So Israel is a country that every single day of its existence, there
could be a terror attack. The people of Israel know that. Do they have a
different mentality than we Americans have?

COHEN: Yes they do. Israelis regardless of where they stand politically
understand the motivation of radically fundamental ideologues who can't be
talked to normally because when you are dealing with that type of ideology,
there is no logic. It's a delusional mentality.

And regardless of where Israelis stand, national security is always taken
seriously, everybody serves in the military. Citizens when permitted often carry
weapons. We rely on our citizenry in Israel to respond as we have seen with all
these crazy knife attacks in the last month. And it's because Israel is a very
socially security-conscious society that we don't have as much terrorism as
there would be if they weren't the way we were in Israel.

O'REILLY: All right. So let me paraphrase. You are saying because Israelis, who
are pretty robust in their political differences because they all come together
on this issue protecting themselves from terrorism, it's easier for the
government to do that while we, in America, are divided along ideological lines
on how to attack ISIS, what to do with the jihad.

As you both know our president won't even mention the word "jihad". So it makes
it more difficult for the country to unite around a single strategy to protect
ourselves. Would that be an accurate assessment, Mr. Hanson?

HANSON: It is absolutely the problem -- Bill. It is the difficulty of a free
democratic society that does not feel as under siege as the Israelis do. But
there are things we can do. The President, at this point, has to be told in no
uncertain terms his job is to kill ISIS and to cut down the black flag as the
Center for Security Policy's plan to kill ISIS calls for.

But we can also do things here in the United States. They are difficult, they
are painful but they need to be done. We commissioned a study and published it
in a peer review journal of 100 mosques in the United States. Out of those
randomly chosen mosques 80 of them were either preaching jihad or had jihadist
literature available.

Those things are not compatible with a free society. And at some point the
safety of our citizens demand that it's not freedom of religion, if the religion
you're preaching is preaching violence. And that's something we need to do.

O'REILLY: All right. Mr. Cohen, I'll give you the last word on it.

COHEN: Well, there's three things we need to do here Bill. We have to call this
thing what it is and I absolutely agree with the gentlemen from the center. Call
this thing what it is, which is Islamic fundamental radicalized terrorism. Two,
get aggressive overseas. And three, start to get aggressive with our
preventative measures here in the United States. Otherwise, we are going to see
a lot more of what we saw today in San Bernardino.

O'REILLY: All right. And again we are speculating to some extent based upon the
information that's coming in here. So, we are not drawing any conclusions or
saying anything in stone. We're just having a discussion about where the
investigation has led right now.

On that note, let's go to Fox News correspondents Trace Gallagher who's
monitoring the investigation in Los Angeles; and Jonathan Hunt who is near the
Inland Regional Center where the rampage took place. Anything new on your front
-- Jonathan?

JONATHAN HUNT, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Bill. Right now there appear to be
two main fronts here. One is the ongoing search for a possible third suspect as
police continue to go down a couple of streets, a couple of miles from me here
in San Bernardino. Now, separately, we understand that law enforcement officials
are currently carrying out search warrants on at least one residence in Redlands
-- that is right next door to San Bernardino.

So two active scenes right now as they continue the search for one possible
suspect and continue the search for a motive in this rampage that killed at
least 14 people and we simply at this stage, according to all law enforcement
officials we have spoken to have no clear motive. Although there are some
indications, officials have been saying, Bill, according to reports coming from
a very reliable reporter, at the L.A. Times that this may have all started
simply with an argument at this holiday party that we understand was going on at
the Inland Regional Center.

O'REILLY: All right. But if that's true these guys certainly had lot of things
prepared to bring in these kinds of weapons and the garb and everything like
that.

HUNT: Yes. The suggestion, Bill is that there may have been an argument between
two people. That, one of those persons then left returned with at least one
accomplice, dressed as we now know in black wearing these black masks according
to witnesses with these fairly heavy duty weapons. So yes it would appear that
there was some planning involved if that indeed was the case.

O'REILLY: Right. And if the pipe bomb report is true, you just don't conjure up
the pipe bomb. I mean you've got it around.

Trace, what do you have for us tonight?

TRACE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Well, I just want to expound on what
Jonathan is saying there, Bill, we are still trying to vet this "L.A. Times"
report. But the theory here is that this was rented out, this conference room
that the shooting happened at was actually rented out by the County Health
Department if San Bernardino. It was kind of a slash Christmas party also kind
of an awards banquet.

And the report is that this person was actually inside the conference room and
then left after an angry altercation and then came back inside. But the question
you raise is a very good one, Bill, which is if you come back in with two other
shooters and you shoot the place up there was clearly an active plan to get out
of this building. Because this building at the complex at the regional center
was the only one that was not secured so what happened is you had shooters go
in. They opened fire. They reloaded, opened fire again and were able to leave
the building because there was no security there.

Got in, apparently to that black SUV, and lingered in that area for the better
part of four hours because it was four hours between the shooting and the
shootout on the open street happened.

O'REILLY: Sure, they live in the area. And they are not real smart anyway. I
mean they go out in broad daylight in a car that was described to the
authorities and it didn't take them long to get nailed down.

Now it's about four minutes to the press conference in San Bernardino. And we're
hoping that they can advance the story and give us at least what they know about
the perps. I mean that's the key right now.

The people who are hurt, the 17 people we're monitoring them -- they're in
hospitals all across the area. We talked to a man -- this is very interesting
story -- Carlos Ortiz and his son Kevin were shot three times. Kevin is in
stable condition. Mr. Ortiz was going to join us but they just let him in to see
his son for the first time. Now Kevin called his father Carlos and described
what was going on. That these guys there were two gunmen and this coincides with
what we told you at the top of the program with the other eyewitness who was
shot in the back.

And these guys just calmly walked in and started mowing people down and firing
all over the place. And then reloaded and started to fire again. Anyway, we wish
Kevin Ortiz the best. We hope that his injuries aren't too grievous. But the
victims are going to be monitored and that will be a big story for tomorrow. For
tonight, we're trying to find out who these guys are. And then as I said if it
is a terrorist component, Islamic, that just blows this whole thing up into
another Paris situation where the President is under siege already and that
becomes a big international story where is if it is just a local beef, then it's
a local beef, it gets down into Charleston, it gets down into Fort Hood and
that.

Now, the "The Washington Post" is reporting also that federal law enforcement
officials are saying, they do not believe the shooting, they do not believe the
shooting is an act of international terrorism. Okay. These are initial reports
that are coming out, which is why I warned everybody that speculating is very
difficult. But, we have a name and the name is obviously a name that was on the
police band and it is a Muslim name. An Arab name. So, we're going to wait.
We're going to take a deep breath and we are hoping this press conference will
materialize shortly. I want to recap on what has happened here.

About is 1:00 Pacific Time this morning, two gunmen, at least, went in to the
San Bernardino Community Center where they have rehab for people with
disabilities and they also rent out rooms. Where there are a couple of parties
going on. Apparently the men shot up one party. We don't know why. We don't know
what the motive is. They fled.

And Adam Housley, I guess there is new information on this. Adam, what do you
have?

ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Bill. I just got off with
federal law enforcement sources, they tell me, the third suspect is a female.
That kind of throws a little bit of a wrinkle in here. We didn't know what to
expect of it as you know. Trying to get a confirmation on the name or type of
name. We are getting some speculation on that as well. But won't go on that
until we get more information on it. But we're told a third suspect is a female.
They are going to address this I'm told in the press conference here very
shortly as you have been alluding too. But we had heard that there might have
been this third suspect, the female being looked for held up in a new home. And
now we are being told that it is a female and that they're going to hopefully
asked more information for us when that press conference takes place, Bill.

O'REILLY: Okay. Do we know if the female still at large?

HOUSLEY: The person I spoke to said, this person said that they believe that
they were still at large. Again this is -- the federal agencies are all trying
to work together. You know, the information gets passed around pretty quickly.
Also very fluid. Under their interpretation, the person was still at large. But,
the information they got was like 10 minutes ago. So, it could change. The
person could be in custody at this moment. But they're still on the impression,
still operating on as if the female is still at large -- Bill.

O'REILLY: Now, is there any stepped up activity where you are. Again, we were
talking about the search, how it was conducted. I know that there is a lot of
activity. Is it frenzied or is it calm where you are, Adam.

HOUSLEY: You know, since I spoke to you last, it was calm and then it got
frenzied in some instance. We saw one of the battering ramps come out here. We
saw a bunch of units live here. A couple come in as well. I talked to one of our
producer who's actually on the other side, basically other side of the location
from where we are. So, diagonal. It's basically a square that they have taken
people out of. And he is on other corner. And says over there, he still sees
some searching was -- it's calmer over there. But we did see some activity here,
Bill. Five or ten minutes ago, right before I got that phone call that said it
was a female was the third suspect.

O'REILLY: Okay, now, in the air, the helicopters, is it still just one hovering
overhead?

HOUSLEY: No, there is two. I saw a second one, Bill. I know it's at least two
police because they are lower, the media ones because it's night. The media ones
are way up high there and over there and over there.

O'REILLY: Yes.

HOUSLEY: But the police ones are low. And the policeman right behind me over my
shoulder behind these trees. And there was one over there I believe as well. So,
seemed like there's two. I think there's two, maybe three. Here comes one right
out, Bill. So, they have picked it up a lot at least this area in the last
couple of -- we haven't seen the helo this close to us since I got here.

(CROSSTALK)

O'REILLY: Do they have spotlights on, Adam?

HOUSLEY: They do have their spotlights on which means there is still a search
going on -- Bill.

O'REILLY: Yes. That's what it means. So, you have three police helicopters in
the air, and the spotlights on obviously.

HOUSLEY: Here comes another one.

O'REILLY: And this is four.

HOUSLEY: Yes. There has definitely been a pickup in action, Bill. Typically
because here comes another one right now. Again, these are not media, there's no
way they will allow media to fly this low.

O'REILLY: Right.

HOUSLEY: I don't know if you can see it at night out here. But here come another
one coming through right now. So, there is definitely some more activity. We saw
the battering ram come out of here right after I spoke to you. And there was a
number of units and tactical teams leave. Then I got the information from a good
source in law enforcement saying that it's a female who is the third suspect.

O'REILLY: Now who is taking the lead for the search? What enforcement agency is
taking the lead, Adam?

HOUSLEY: Right now, I'll see that's part of the problem, Bill, San Bernardino
police says that there's still the lead. But I know from talking with federal
sources that the FBI generally steps into these situations. They are very good
about working with local law enforcement here in California especially with the
number of scenes. But I know the FBI is obviously very active.

O'REILLY: All right, Adam. Let's go to the press conference in Southern
California, go.

CHIEF JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE DEPARTMENT: -- Conference. But I
will say this. Since that time, we are still working on the building here at the
Inland Regional Center. As officers were searching the building, we have
mentioned in the first press conference that there was suspicious devices. One
of those devices is believed to potentially be an explosive device. They are
taking a very cautious, very slow approach to processing that building and
rendering that safe. So, I would imagine we will going to be here for several
hours as the bomb squad continues to work that part. On the investigative side,
we followed up on some tips that took us to a residence in the city of Redlands.
When officers were setting up on that residence to watch it there was a vehicle
that was seen leaving.

That was suspected of possibly being involved. There ended up being a pursuit of
that vehicle and eventually that pursuit came back to Samuel Avenue between
Mountain View and Richardson here in the city of San Bernardino where the
suspect's vehicle stopped and there was an officer- involved shooting. We had
multiple officers that were involved in the shooting. We have two suspects that
are dead at the scene. One of them male. One is a female. We had one police
officer that was wounded. He has injuries that are not considered to be life
threatening and he is at a local hospital and is expected to be okay.

The suspects that were -- that are dead at the scene. One is a male. One is a
female. They were dressed in kind of assault style clothing. I think this is
probably the best way to term it. They are both armed with assault rifles. They
are both armed with handguns. And there is also kind of some sensitive stuff
around the vehicle that they are just not real sure. They are taking a very
cautious approach to dealing with the vehicle in case there is more explosives
there. With that, I'm going to turn it over to Dave with the FBI to talk about
some parts of the investigation.

DAVID BOWDICH, FBI ASSISTANT DIRECTOR IN CHARGE OF LOS ANGELES FIELD OFFICE:
Thank you, Chief. So first off my name is -- my name David Bowdich, the
assistant director in charge of the FBI here in the Los Angeles field office.
B-o-w-d-i-c-h. First off we want to extend our true sadness to the families of
the victims. There are many, many victims who are involved here. Some are
obviously deceased. Others are wounded and being treated as we speak. This is
truly a tragedy in our country and we will continue to apply all the resources
necessary to assure that both us, the sheriff's department, the San Bernardino
Police Department as well as the ATF work this thing together to assure that we
have chased down every lead to solve this case.

Secondly, we are bringing in FBI resources. We have agents on house in Redlands,
California right now. That house, as we know, we do not know the contents of
what's in that house. But previous active shooter incidents have shown us that
there are times when devices are left behind. We do not have any indications
there are devices. To my knowledge, but we certainly are going to proceed very
cautiously in to that house to preserve life and limb of our employees. We are
bringing evidence response teams in to work hand in hand with our state and
local partners on the officer involved shooting scenes as well as the scene here
where we have multiple victims as well as the house, we will continue to go down
this road.

This is a marathon, not a sprint. I know one of the big questions that will come
up repeatedly is, is this terrorism? And I am still not willing to say that we
know that for sure. We are definitely making some movements that it is a
possibility. We are making some adjustments to our investigation. It is a
possibility. But we don't know that yet. And we are not willing to go down that
road yet.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: David, the relationship between the two dead suspects?

BOWDICH: Unknown at this point.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The name?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: How old you will approximately are they?

BOWDICH: I do not even know that.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What about the third suspect? They were talking a third
suspect.

BOWDICH: There is a third suspect and I don't know the disposition of that
suspect. I would defer that question to the chief. What I will tell you on any
indications of terrorism or this investigation, I told a few of you already, we
will go where the evidence takes us. It's possible it goes down that road. It's
also possible it does not. We're just not sure yet. And when we are fairly sure,
we will let you know.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you have a motive for this?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Could this possibly be terrorism?

BOWDICH: There are a number of potentials and there is a few potential things
but we just don't know. And I'm not willing to go down that road. This is a very
fluid, active investigation. We are still gathering facts, all the heads of
agencies that we have here. We are still gathering some of these facts ourselves
because this scene is strewn throughout the city and into another city. And it's
incredibly fluid and that's just the way these things -- we'll get there when we
get there.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: -- information about the identity of the third suspect,
description, anything?

BURGUAN: So I should have included that in -- when I talked a moment ago. So as
I said we had an officer-involved shooting on Samuel Avenue between Mountain
View and Richardson. There were two people in the vehicle, both of those people
are deceased. There was a third person that was seen running away. We do not
know if they were involved. We have that person detained. I don't have any
information on who that person is yet and we certainly don't know if they were
involved. It's possible they were not. In addition to that and the reason we put
things out on social media that we ask people to shelter in place in those
neighborhoods is because there were some folks that called in and had reported
that they heard somebody jumping fences and they reported some of that activity
in the neighborhood.

We don't know if that was possibly responding officers but we took a cautious
approach. We locked down the neighborhood. We asked people to shelter in place
and we searched that neighborhood extensively. As of a couple of minutes ago, we
just got words that that searches has been wrapped up. No additional folks have
been contacted or seen there. So, we feel that that area is safe and we can lift
that shelter in place order there.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you have a motive yet and why this location?

BURGUAN: We do not have a motive.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Possible age of the suspect.

BURGUAN: I do not have that right now. Keep in mind -- keep in mind that I said
that there were some things that were causing the officers to take a very, very
cautious approach in approaching those suspects and so we just are not that far
into the investigation yet.

(INAUDIBLE QUESTION)

BURGUAN: I'm sorry?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Possibility these suspects might have had suicide vests or
something similar?

BURGUAN: I don't know. I have not heard suicide vests, no.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you believe that this whole situation is all clear that
people are safe or there is still more shooters potentially out there?

BURGUAN: We feel confident about the neighborhood where the officer- involved
shooting took place that we have secured that and there is nobody outstanding
there. We are reasonably confident on that. On the broader scale of the
investigation, as I said early on, we had information that there were
potentially three shooters, we are still at a point where we are tracking down
that information. We are going to try to continue to identify if there was a
third person involved or potentially even more people that might have been
involved in the planning. But we are still pretty early on that part of the
investigation.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There were a number of reports about a holiday party.

BURGUAN: I can't listen to all of them.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Chief, there is a report out as to holiday party somebody
left angrily, went out, came back with two other people, guns, and started
firing. Any truth to that?

BURGUAN: So, I have heard that they were in a meeting or a holiday party type
event at the Inland Regional Center. Somebody did leave. But we have no idea if
that is the person that came back.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh, so that's a possibility then?

BURGUAN: Somebody did leave. There was some type of dispute or something when
somebody left that party. But we have no idea if those are the people that came
back.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: -- Any idea what kinds of weapons were recovered at the point
of the shootout, you said long guns initially?

BURGUAN: They were assault style weapons.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: AK series?

BURGUAN: Yes, that type of weapon, yes.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Are there explosives, sir, near that black SUV currently?

BURGUAN: There was a report that they potentially threw what was identified as a
pipe bomb. I think we have rendered that device safe, it was not an explosive. I
think we are still working on the vehicle and making sure that that is safe.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Can you give us anything on description of these suspects,
their appearance, their ethnicity, anything? Age?

BURGUAN: Just the way that was described to me and I said this in the first
press conference they came dressed and equipped and I think the people that we
have at the scene that are deceased are dressed in that way. They are dressed in
dark, kind of tactical gear I think is the best I would put it.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Ethnicity. Anything like that --

BURGUAN: I don't know. I don't know.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Serve a search warrant (inaudible).

BURGUAN: I didn't say we served a search warrant.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We understand you served a search warrant is what we are
being told. So, is it your understanding that they were hold up in the general
area then the whole time?

BURGUAN: No. No. There was information on the early part of the investigation as
we started to develop information, there was one particular focus area that we
went there were a couple. But there was one particular focus area that we went
to. And it was one of those follow-ups focus areas that led us to the house in
Redlands that led to the ultimate pursuit that led to the officer involved
shooting.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Is that their house?

BURGUAN: The address was connected to the follow-up that we had. I don't know
who the suspects are. Nor do I know if that is where they lived.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Chief, do you believe that the --

BURGUAN: They were carrying assault style weapons.

(INAUDIBLE QUESTION)

I don't know the specific caliber or make or model of the gun. Hang on, real
quick.

(INAUDIBLE QUESTION)

BURGUAN: There were two people in the SUV. Both of them were deceased.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Police killed them both.

BURGUAN: One male, one female. They were engaged in a gun battle with police
officers. And we had several officers that shot at them and into the vehicle. I
don't know what bullets caused their death.

(INAUDIBLE QUESTION)

BURGUAN: We have a third person seen leaving the area. He is detained. We do not
know the extent of his involvement, if any. It's possible that he was not.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Aurora and Coalson (ph)?

BURGUAN: It was -- he was -- the person was detained very close to where the
officer involved shooting. We don't have an Aurora and Coalson.

(INAUDIBLE QUESTION)

BURGUAN: I don't know.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There was an arrest on Coalson Street --

BURGUAN: This was somebody detained. We have not identified them yet.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Did he have weapons on him, that third suspect that's
detained? Weapons located on that person?

BURGUAN: I don't have that information.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Was there any words exchanged during this gunfire
(INAUDIBLE).

BURGUAN: I don't know. I don't know.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Nationality?

BURGUAN: I don't know. Okay. We're going to try to do another press conference
sometime around 8:30, 9:00. Hopefully we will have more information for you at
that time. Thank you.

O'REILLY: All right. That was the police chief of San Bernardino. And the
breaking news there were two suspects shot dead by police. And one suspect being
detained. You know, it's funny because I have been doing this for 40 years. The
police know more than they say. And there is always a little hints. When the FBI
guy got up there and he said, look, we're north ruling out terrorism, that means
that terrorism is on the radar. Okay. Because if they thought that this was just
Bonnie and Clyde, all right, two narrative -- who just shot up something for
whatever reason, they would quickly, quickly get that out. But, but you cannot
speculate further than what the man said. So, terrorism is in play.

Let's bring in Catherine Herridge from Washington, our correspondent who knows
all of the Intel players. So, what are you hearing tonight, Catherine?

CATHERINE HERRIDGE, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Well, Bill, we just had a
conversation with U.S. government official who has told us that the lead
assailant has been confirmed as a U.S. citizen. They did not provide further
information but they did also tell us that they had been working with a foreign
name earlier and they believe, based on their review of records that that name
has washed out. What caught my attention of the news conference is the
description of male and female suspect that were killed at that SUV. The assault
style clothing, the assault weapons. A handguns, and then also what they believe
may be explosive devices inside that vehicle and then also at a suspect's home.
A final point, the FBI, as the evening has progressed and you rightly point out
is becoming more deeply involved in this investigation and has not ruled out
terrorism as possibility in this case -- Bill.

O'REILLY: Okay. We might tell the audience that if it's a local beef. If it's
just people in San Bernardino, committing murder, that's not a federal crime.
All right. So the Feds don't get involved. There is no bias activity here as far
as we can tell. So the fact that the FBI, Los Angeles office is almost taking
the lead here, he didn't want to embarrass the police chief by speaking first,
shows us that there is an avenue of investigation that contains a terror
component. Now, when you say, Catherine that it's a U.S. citizen. As you know
the George Washington University study just out today says that there are about
300 U.S. citizens involved actively with ISIS on social media and 71 have been
arrested for ISIS-related activity. So that doesn't really tell us too much,
does it?

HERRIDGE: It doesn't tell us a lot in this particular situation. But the facts
seem to be laying out this evening in such a way, Bill, that the FBI is getting
more intensely involved as you rightly point out that would not be the case if
they thought it was simply it was simply a local matter. And they are also very
focused on the level of preparation there seems to be here and also how heavily
armed they will and what they believe may be improvised explosive devices.

O'REILLY: Right. I mean, look, it is not just a beef that somebody got mad at a
party, obviously. But it's interesting because the Washington Post is reporting
that someone told them that it was international terrorism. That's what the
Washington Post is reporting. But if you listen to the FBI guy, he's not ruling
that out. So, you know, you've been around long enough like I have to know that
we're probably not going to know until tomorrow what the extent of this is.

HERRIDGE: That's right.

O'REILLY: You know, but once they find out, who these individuals are, go into
the home and as we just heard, Catherine, they can't go into the home yet
because it might be booby-trapped. Like the guy in Colorado did. So they can't
go in yet. Once they get who the guy and the gal were, they're easily going to
trace them down. Get their computers, see where they are and by this time
tomorrow we should is a full profile. Do you think that's the way it's going to
unfold?

HERRIDGE: I think we should have a much better picture by this time tomorrow.
Because now that they have these two suspects who were killed at the scene, they
should be able to identify them fairly quickly. And once they have
identifications, as you rightly point out, they're going to scrub their
electronics so they see what kind of social media footprint they had, if any,
and what their phones, sim cards, their computers will show about their activity
leading up to this event. The thing that also caught my attention is that the
news conference is the police chief I believe said that there had been a report
of an argument at that conference center, the room that had been rented, but
they were not clear that this individual is the same person who entered with the
gunmen. There have been lots of reporting this evening that it was but this is
-- does seems also in doubt at this hour.

O'REILLY: Okay. Well, we might have some clarification on that point, Catherine.
And we appreciate you helping us out tonight because on the phone --

HERRIDGE: Of course.

O'REILLY: -- right now is Lieutenant Rich Lawhead, public information officer
for the San Bernardino Police Department. We appreciate it Lieutenant, we know
you're really busy. But can you answer Catherine's question about the argument
that allegedly happened at the center?

LT. RICH LAWHEAD, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE DEPARTMENT (on the phone): Well, you
know obviously like the Chief said, there was an argument. However we don't
know, you know, what that argument is about. Whether it has anything to do with
this case whatsoever. And we don't want to be too quick to point fingers or say
yes, that was involved. I mean, we have to be careful about what we say --

O'REILLY: Absolutely. You can't speculate. Now what you can tell us though, is
the person who is detained, is that person in your custody at your police
station right now?

LAWHEAD: That person is detained. I won't say exactly where they are. Obviously
that person is detained and we're going to do, like the chief says, a full
investigation to determine, you know, if they had any involvement whatsoever. If
there is any connection to him whatsoever.

O'REILLY: Male or female, sir?

LAWHEAD: What's that?

O'REILLY: Male or female?

LAWHEAD: I'm not going to comment on that right now.

O'REILLY: Is there a reason -- I'm not being a wise guy, is there a reason
you're not going to comment on that?

LAWHEAD: No. I just basically want to hold up and let obviously the
investigation to run its course. I don't want to see like I'm keeping
information from you. But I just want the investigation, without saying who it
is or who they are whether they are male or female, let's let it play out a
little bit here.

O'REILLY: Okay. Who is interrogating? Your officers or the FBI?

LAWHEAD: I would imagine it's going to be -- since this is a case that
originated in San Bernardino, I would imagine that all agencies are going to be
involved. Obviously, we have a criminal element here and then whether there is
applications to federal level, we usually work collectively with those agencies.

O'REILLY: Do you know if any of the 17 wounded are in danger of dying?

LAWHEAD: You know, anybody that is wounded in a situation like this, there is
that potential.

O'REILLY: But you don't have updated information on how many are in critical
condition or anything like that?

LAWHEAD: No, I do not, sir.

O'REILLY: Okay. Do you know what hospitals all 17 wounded are in? Are you
tracking them?

LAWHEAD: Yes, we are keeping track of where they're at. Obviously we have three
trauma centers that are very close to us. Some of those went to Arrowhead
Regional. Some of those went to Loma Linda University. We have a couple of the
trauma centers. And some of the people that weren't maybe necessarily as
seriously traumatized might have gone to some of our local hospitals. We have
San Bernardino as well community hospitals in our city that are active emergency
rooms.

O'REILLY: I have two more questions for you, Lieutenant.

LAWHEAD: Sure.

O'REILLY: Did you see the suspect who was detained? Did you see that person?

LAWHEAD: No, I did not.

O'REILLY: Okay. Well, that answers my second question. All right. We appreciate
you --

LAWHEAD: I would like to if I could --

O'REILLY: I know. But I'm real curious about whether it was male or female. I
mean, I think that's important.

LAWHEAD: Right.

O'REILLY: So, once you get comfortable, we would like to know that.

LAWHEAD: Sure. And you know, I think that the chief was clear pretty about, hey
we want to be real careful here. We don't want to start an international
incident unless we're absolutely sure that it is an international incident. And
we just want to get those questions answered. Now that we are sure that the --
you know, personal license secure, I mean, that was the hardest part --

O'REILLY: Sure.

LAWHEAD: -- is making sure everybody was secure and now we can work on the
criminals --

O'REILLY: All right. So, there's no more drag now, you're not looking for
anybody else. You think you wrap the whole thing up. You just need to get
information straight before you give it up.

LAWHEAD: Sure. I think you mentioned the computers and all that stuff,
obviously, we will look at all that.

O'REILLY: All right.

LAWHEAD: We will did a search of all that stuff and see if there's other people
involved.

O'REILLY: All right. Lieutenant -- I can't thank you enough for helping us out
tonight. And let's go back to Adam Housley who were at the scene of the domestic
terror activity today to wrap it up for us. So, you heard a lot of things
clarified in the last 10 minutes. Two suspects dead, shot dead by police. One
person has been detained. We don't know much about that person but they're being
interrogated. Seventeen people wounded. We don't know how many are critical but
they are all in area hospitals. Can you add anything to that mix?

HOUSLEY: Yes. Well, obviously one of the suspects we reported for you, Bill,
before it was a female which did threw over a curveball that some people had
reported not us but had reported that there were three men involved in this
today. I will tell you that after we got off the air with you and went to the
press conference that a huge long line of law enforcement came in here. There's
still a couple of helicopters up as well. There are police helicopters. And
Bill, you're on to something earlier when you talked about the FBI, I can tell
you this, the FBI was on this very early. And you know that from being on these
scenes as well, that they more than they're telling.

O'REILLY: Yes.

HOUSLEY: -- Police though, I get that's part of the investigation.

O'REILLY: Right.

HOUSLEY: But they were on this very early. They passed us. We were out the door
literally within minutes before they came in. They passed and I had no traffic
in the line which never happens. They passed me on the freeway going down the
inside the basically, not the bike lane, but on pull over lane on the inside,
unmarked FBI, I know those guys, they went flying by me. And we're talking, you
know, within 20, 30 minutes of the shooting. So, they were already responding in
mass. They were here quickly. They were very good to deferring to the local
police, as you mentioned.

But they are very clearly are taking this and taking control of this, which you
know, does insinuate some things. But until they say that, obviously we can't go
with that. But they are very well and very active. They have come by here. We
know there are units down there. We know they have multiple public relations
officials here as well. So, they are here much more than I've seen on any other
shooting in the Los Angeles area other than the Los Angeles -- the one that
happened at the airport a few years ago. So, they are here in a very large
presence -- Bill.

O'REILLY: Okay. Now, the only thing that has left as far as the Lieutenant was
concerned from the San Bernardino police, is the vehicle suspect were in. It's
still in the middle of the street.

HOUSLEY: Right.

O'REILLY: Because they are afraid there is something inside the vehicle that
might hurt somebody, is that correct?

HOUSLEY: Correct. In fact, you can see they actually cleared out all their cars
too. Bill, at one point, we were down almost to where that head light is, way
done there. Within 150 yards of the SUV, we could actually see it. And they
moved us out, they moved all their vehicles out. And then they've gone in with
some tactical units and staffs -- the red lights are way in, the distance
obviously, it's night so that -- the video is a bit grainy, so we apologize for
that. That's where the SUV is. If you were to go directly to the right from that
location, that's where the other search was going on, the barricade. You saw
people going door to door -- with a woman I spoke to earlier to the phone was a
woman hiding in the closet. So, all this taking place really in this area. And
we are about a mile and half directly east from where the killings took place.

O'REILLY: All right. Well, we're happy that that lady didn't come out of the
closet with her dog. And we're happy that the authorities believe that they will
have the whole thing wrapped up. There's no present danger there. And Adam, we
really appreciate your fine work. You stand by for Megyn. She is coming up at
9:00.

HOUSLEY: Thank you.

O'REILLY: And we do expect another press conference, as you heard, to take place
within the hour. And we are very, very interested to find out who these people
are, obviously. Because as soon as they do that, and as Adam said, the FBI and
the local authorities know more than they're saying. And that's fine. I mean,
they have to be very, very methodical. Can't make mistakes. Like we in the press
can make mistakes. It doesn't matter. They make mistakes, it matters. So, we
respect that. We understand the process that's underway. And we will be on the
air here throughout the evening with updates from the scene in Southern
California.

We appreciate you watching THE FACTOR tonight. Tomorrow we will have our
interview with Donald Trump for you as well as follow-up reporting on this
terrible situation. Thanks for watching. Miss Megyn is next.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120201cb.256

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               28 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                           December 2, 2015 Wednesday

                        SHOW: THE KELLY FILE 9:00 PM EST

Awaiting New Info on Suspects; Awaiting New Information on Possible Motive in
San Bernardino Police; 14 Killed, 17 Hurt in California Shooting; FBI: Not
Ruling Out Terrorism; New Video From San Bernardino Shooting

BYLINE: Megyn Kelly, Trace Gallagher, Catherine Herridge, Adam Housley

GUESTS: Mark Fuhrman, Peter King, Sandy Wood

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 9874  words


MEGYN KELLY, HOST, "THE KELLY FILE": Breaking tonight, a massive investigation
and manhunt following the nation's worst mass shooting since Newtown.

Welcome to THE KELLY FILE, everyone, I'm Megyn Kelly. Moments ago, we learned
two of the suspects are now dead. One of them is a woman. The FBI revealing
moments ago, this may have been terrorism.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DAVID BOWDICH, FBI ASSISTANT DIRECTOR IN CHARGE OF LOS ANGELES FIELD OFFICE: Go
down this road. This is America, not a sprint. I know one of the big questions
that will come out repeatedly is, is this terrorism. And I'm still not willing
to say that we know that for sure. We are definitely making some movements that
it is a possibility. We are making some adjustments to our investigation. It is
a possibility, but we don't know that yet. And we're not willing to go down that
road yet.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Police confirming now that a third person has been detained. But it is
unclear if that person is involved in today's shooting. We have a ton of new
developments to sort through after the news conference that just wrapped up a
few minutes ago. It all started just before 11:00 a.m. West Coast Time. The
first calls of help came into police. Reports of shots fired at Inland Regional
Center, a sprawling three building complex with hundreds of employees who help
people with developmental disabilities. Within moments, cops arrive on the
scene, that scene is still dangerous at this hour. Just moments ago, we learned
police discovered an explosive device inside and still have not cleared that
building.

Here is how one worker described what unfolded after the first calls went out
this morning.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BRANDON HUNTS, WORKS IN THE REGIONAL CENTER: As soon as I was about to turn into
our building, a cop car started surrounding the building and blocking off the
road.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Have you spoken on the phone with anyone who was sheltering
in place?

HUNTS: Yes, I have. They immediately got to closets or rooms with a locked door.
And I guess they were listening to a police scanner.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: By 11:15 a.m. Local Time, the Fire Department reports that they are
responding to a 20-victim shooting. A few minutes later, the first suggestions,
this might be far from a lone wolf situation. We start hearing reports of three
possible gunmen armed with rifles, wearing what is been described as military
gear. All of that was confirmed by police in the news conference a few moments
ago. Meantime in an all too familiar scene we saw SWAT teams move victims out
with their arms raised high in the air. Shortly after 12:30 p.m. Pacific reports
would surface that the gunman may be gone. Somehow managing to slip past the
responding officers. As least one eyewitness describing what he saw and heard.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JUAN HERNANDEZ, WITNESS: I was actually standing right across the street of the
hotel. It sound like I heard, like a shooting range. Just shots being shot like
crazy. Just, I mean, a lot of shots. We have seen a black SUV flying down the
street. What I saw looked like one guy was wearing military fatigues. And after
that, just seeing all the police and everybody start coming through.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: In the last few moments, police revealing new details on the suspects.
With more on what we learned in that presser, Trace Gallagher joins us now.
Trace.

TRACE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Couple of big headlines out of the news
conference, Megyn. One is, we knew that the shooting happened inside the
conference room of the regional center. We know the conference room was actually
rented out by the county Mental Health Department. They were holding a Christmas
party/awards banquet inside there. There were these reports that there was
someone inside the party that had an argument. That person left. And then
apparently came back with somebody else and opened fire.

The police tonight were pressed during the press conference about that. And they
acknowledged, yes in fact there was some type of dispute inside the conference
room. Yes, that person did leave, but they cannot say for sure if the person
came back inside and opened fire with some other person. They were also talking
about the fact that early on in the investigation that a name came up and the
police said to us, or in scanner traffic, that in fact they knew the name and
the date of birth of one of the persons who is believed to be a suspect.

Police acknowledged tonight that that information apparently led them to a house
in Redlands which is only a few miles away from where the shooting took place.
It was that house in Redlands during a follow-up investigation that they came
upon a suspect vehicle. It was that suspect vehicle that turned into a chase.
And that turned into the shooting that you were seeing here. It was the SUV, the
black SUV that was apparently seen leaving the mental center earlier today, or
the regional center earlier today. There was a shootout. The two suspects inside
the SUV were shot and killed. One was female, one was male. A police officer was
hit by a ricochet bullet but did not suffer a life-threatening wound.

There was said to be a third suspect in all of this. That third suspect is
apparently been apprehended but police were very careful tonight to say that
it's unclear if that suspect is connected to the shootings. Remember, all day
long, we were hearing as many as three suspects, well, now three are accounted
for, but it is unclear if the third person who is now in custody is actually
connected to the shooting. We should note the FBI also spoke tonight of this
Megyn and did allow some wiggle room. Earlier today, the FBI said, we don't know
if this is connected to terrorism.

Tonight they said things have change and that we are now open to the possibility
that this might be terrorism. Clearly the FBI has shifted in whatever
information they have gleaned throughout the day but as this investigation has
gone on, Megyn, and as we have information tonight about a name that was out
there that may have been a foreign name, police are now looking into that.
Widening the investigation. The FBI is at least a co- lead in all of this. San
Bernardino still says they are taking the lead but the FBI is getting more and
more involved as the investigation goes on -- Megyn.

KELLY: Trace, thank you. And thank you for your caution in that name. Catherine
Herridge had some breaking news on that. And we will treat it responsibly on
this program.

Joining me now is the man who has an intimate understanding of the area where
the shooting unfolded. Mark Fuhrman, who is a former LAPD detective and a FOX
New contributor. And Mark, thank you for being here.

MARK FUHRMAN, FORMER LAPD DETECTIVE: Thank you.

KELLY: So, as you hear the police come out with -- it's been a bizarre day in
terms of the information that the police and the law enforcement has shared.
When you hear them talking about, still, how the third person who has been
detained may or may not be connected to this, that they can't -- they don't know
the ethnicity of the two shooters, the suspect -- the suspects that dead. What
did you glean from that presser?

FUHRMAN: Well, certainly the two deceased shooters have probably been
fingerprinted and photographed. They might possibly quite have identification on
them. I doubt it, but they might have. They might know the identification of
both suspects. They might know where they are from, if they are nationals or
United States citizens. But certainly, they were led back to this house in
Redlands. So, when you look at the -- when you listen to the press conference,
they did quite a shift from earlier press conferences today and the evidence
that was initially out was multiple shooters unlike mass shootings in the United
States. Targeted location. A very disciplined organized approach. Ingress,
egress. And they escaped. That was something that probably left law enforcement
with the suspicious that this was something more than a disgruntled employee,
love triangle or just an angry mental patient.

KELLY: What did that tell you if anything that one of the two who has been shot
is a woman?

FUHRMAN: Well, we know that terrorism is not a sexist career. The women are just
as involved as the men. And just as committed. A man/woman team with a third
suspect, you see this in the Middle East, in Africa and Europe, and you see it
all the time. We just had one incident in Paris just a couple weeks ago. We also
have the newspaper in Paris that this looks remarkably the same. You have a
conference room that's attacked, a procession attacked, targeted specifically
once the conference room and the people are shot, they leave. Mass assault
rifles exactly like this situation is almost like they took the blueprint from
that shooting and brought it to San Bernardino.

KELLY: How much planning do you think went into this?

FUHRMAN: Well, I think they have a lot of planning. They knew the location, they
knew the conference room. Somebody had been into that location before. Somebody
knew exactly where to go. They knew there was a conference there that I suspect
that the target or targets were the ones that actually rented their conference
room. They didn't seem to be engaging anybody outside or trying to go into any
other wings of the facility. So I think they knew that. And that reconnaissance
was probably done. But what they didn't realize is that there was a police
training center a mile and a half away that was currently having a training day
which probably was their downfall because when the call went out, everybody left
and sealed off that perimeter and a fairly large area and probably trapped them
inside.

KELLY: And that's why you think they stuck around so long? That's one of the big
mysteries. They got away with it. I mean, they got out. No one shot them. They
didn't take their own lives. Which suggests something about their state of mind.
And yet they stuck around.

FUHRMAN: Well, and you wonder if they had the capability to listen into the news
reports. If they had, you know, a smart phone. Or they are actually watching
live time footage of helicopters, statements of the media, of the police. We
don't know where they are. The police don't know where they are. They think they
found an abandoned SUV. If they hear that and they just stay down low and they
just wait, maybe they thought the police thought that they were already in the
wind and they got a little nervous and decided to make a go for it.

KELLY: When you hear the police tonight talk about how they had tactical gear
on. How they had assault rifles and they had handguns, about how they had been
-- this is been reported earlier now, not at the presser but that they had been
reportedly throwing pipe bombs out of the SUV while they were driving that at
the police. About how they believe there may be explosive devices in the
facility in which they committed murders and possibly around the SUV. The police
seemed to be intimating, perhaps they couldn't get close to the suspects because
of those suspected IEDs or some sort of explosive device. Is it possible, in
your mind, this was the work of a male/female pair, the ones in that SUV, and
that's it?

FUHRMAN: Well, I suspect that there is probably a larger cell. I would suspect
that this is probably either domestic or international terrorism or sponsored by
or radicalized by. This, you know, also looks very much like Boston at the end
where they were throwing improvised explosive devices out of the vehicle at the
time they were being shot at by the police. So, when you look at the
sophistication, the planning, the motivation and the collective ideology of
three people to actually go into a facility, well-armed, body armor, tactical
equipment. You know, AKs, going in there and actually just shooting people at a
target of location, it is a very precision operation that's been planned,
thought out. Everybody knows their role. They're working in concert. They go in
and then they leave. It is very, you know, surgical to what they are doing. And
it smacks of Paris, of Boston.

KELLY: And they're considering that possibility as we speak. Mark, thank you.

Again, if you were just joining us in the last half hour, the FBI agent in
charge on the scene at this mass shooting in San Bernardino, California, shared
some comments that suggests the Feds maybe taking a closer look at whether this
is terrorism. Let's listen to that again.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BOWDICH: We will continue to go down this road. This is a marathon, not a
sprint. I know one of the big questions that will come up repeatedly is, is this
terrorism? And I am still not willing to say that we know that for sure. We are
definitely making some movements that it is a possibility. We are making some
adjustments to our investigation. It is a possibility. But we don't know that
yet. And we are not willing to go down that road yet.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Making some movements that it is a possibility. Our chief intelligence
correspondent Catherine Herridge is live in Washington tonight. Catherine.

CATHERINE HERRIDGE, FOX NEWS CHIEF INTELLIGENCE CORRESPONDENT: Well, thank you,
Megyn. Based on the evidence so far, U.S. government official told FOX News that
the chief assailant here is a U.S. citizen. They did not offer a lot of
additional information but they also told us that earlier this evening, they had
been working with what was described to us as a foreign name but based on their
search of data bases, that name had washed out. But also has the attention of
investigators and Homeland Security here in Washington this evening is some of
the elements of that news conference.

As you've already mentioned, the male and female suspects, this evidence that
goes towards premeditation. The assault clothing, the assault weapons, also the
handguns and the possible use of explosive devices, a booby-trapped in the car.
And also at one of the suspects that we believe to be the residence. Final point
is this increasing involvement of the FBI. Again, that sorts of tilts us towards
terrorism. I'm not saying we know anything more than that but it tilts us in
that direction, much more so as you saw in the soundbite than what we heard from
the FBI earlier today -- Megyn.

KELLY: Uh-hm. And it certainly went much further tonight than they had earlier.
Catherine Herridge with some new reporting. The lead suspect was indeed an
American citizen. Catherine, thank you.

HERRIDGE: You're welcome.

KELLY: Joining us now with more, Republican Congressman Peter King. A member of
both the Homeland Security and the intelligence committees. Good to see you
tonight, Congressman. Thank you for being with us.

REP. PETER KING (R-NY), INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE MEMBER: Thank you, Megyn. Good to
be here.

KELLY: First of all, what are you hearing and with respect to this case and what
they believe may be going on here?

KING: Well, Megyn, I've heard nothing official. But I know there was reference
maybe -- I'm not going to mention the name but I heard that same name about
three hours ago with the date of birth and apparently it was that person's
residence is where they located the SUV. That certainly adds a -- it is a
foreign name even though it may be an American citizen. You had that plus all of
the body armor, the heavy duty weapons, the explosive, the fact there was a
male/female involved. Perhaps a third person. It certainly has aspects of
terrorism. Again, it may not be but I certainly understand why the FBI is
changing its nuance, it's changing its tone. And it seems to be at least
exploring that. It's too early to say that it is terrorism, but it certainly has
aspects of it.

KELLY: But the sources that Catherine spoke too are waving us off of that name
and suggesting that that has washed out. Now, it's early and that could turn out
to be untrue. But that's what we're hearing as of this moment.

KING: I think it washed out as far as being on the data base. But I believe when
the police officials said that they got the address of that person and that's
where they located the SUV.

KELLY: And so as far as you -- this is you based on your television, you know,
consumption or this is you based on anything beyond that? I mean, are you sort
of resurrecting that name as having a possible role in this?

KING: Yes. I am saying, I was given that name three hours ago. The name and the
date of birth. And now I just heard, I heard the report of the police saying
that they checked out the name, if it is the same name we're talking about, that
came up three hours ago and they went to the residents and that's where the SUV
was located.

KELLY: Uh-hm. Uh-hm. What do you think that they are looking at tonight? Why
won't they get out there and tell us explicitly what are the names, what are the
ages, what are the ethnicities. That's one of the questions that the reporters
were asking because people are wondering whether this is radical Islamic
terrorism. That's why they are asking.

KING: Yes. Again, I think the FBI wants it hold back until they have a better
idea where it is going. This could be the disgruntled employee. It could be a
love triangle. It could be terrorism. And I think they want to explore
everything. And they also don't want to give out too much in case other people
are involved. You know, they don't want to compromise anything. So, I
understand. You know, we're only three hours into this and we, you and I, we
like to give you information as quickly as we can. But I think they are doing a
thorough job and I give them credit for that.

KELLY: Uh-hm. And do you believe that the FBI knows much more than they are
telling us?

KING: I assume so. Yes. They always do. My father was a cop. I'd been around FBI
agents, cops all my life. They want to get the case as much under control as
they can before they go public. Not because they're trying to withhold
information. But they don't want to, first of all, you know, create an incident
where one doesn't exist and also, there could be others out there that they may
be trying to apprehend.

KELLY: Why do you think they say they are not ruling terrorism out as he put it?
Is this terrorism? We're not willing to say we know that for sure. We are moving
some -- we are making some movements that it is a possibility. Why would the LA
FBI director say it in that way, Congressman?

KING: I think because they see indicators that could lead to terrorism. Two
hours ago, they did not see that. Whatever they uncovered in the last several
hours, they've seen certain evidence, certain indicators that could be
terrorism. Not enough to say conclusively and it may not be. But enough that
they can rule it out. So, there's definitely a switch and emphasis, definitely a
switch in nuance.

KELLY: Uh-hm. And certainly the implications would be much more far- reaching.
If indeed, that's what we are looking right here. Congressman, thank you.

KING: Megyn, thank you.

KELLY: Breaking right now, just as we were starting this broadcast. Adam Housley
got a hold of exclusive video showing the earlier shootout between police and
the suspects. This is the first time we are seeing it. We go live now to Adam
live in San Bernardino with that exclusive. Adam.

ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS REPORTER: Yes, Megyn. We're seeing this up for you too,
and give you a little bit more about what Peter King and you were just speaking
of, about the names that are being thrown around. I just got off the phone with
law enforcement, they tell me one reason why it is being held very delicately,
held very delicately, because they can't get inside that SUV still. They do
believe it is potentially booby-trapped or has explosive devices. They do
believe there is more information about the suspects inside but those names
being thrown around and potentially could lead them down the path as alluded to
in that press conference. So, they're being very delicate with this, precisely
because of the names they believe could be on the suspects.

Meantime where these suspect were shot and where it began was just behind me. I
will step away and we'll go to that video. About 200 yards, 250 yards down from
where we're standing. We were there earlier. There was glass on the street.
That's where the first shooting began. The back window is shot out of the SUV.
About a hundred feet further, that's where the first main shootout happened
where they went back and forth trading gunfire between authorities and the
suspects. Then they went through the stop light and that's where it came to an
end they were shot and killed. The video you're going to see now is from David,
David I interviewed earlier today, he was in the location or basically right
where the second shootout happened. So three locations about 100 yards between
the two or between the three. He was right there. Here comes the video. Take a
look. It's the first time it has been seen anywhere.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DAVID ESPINOZA, WITNESSED SAN BERNARDINO SHOOTOUT: On this part of San
Bernardino, this is what's going on. We still got all this stuff going on. Oh,
they are after somebody. Oh, (bleep). Oh, (bleep). Something is going on.
Something is going on. There you go. They are after that guy. They are after
that guy. Guns. Gunshots. Gunshots. Gunshots. Ah! Did you see that? Yes. There
was gunshots. Oh -- oh, better get down, bro. Let's get out of here. Oh, my God.
Oh, oh, oh, they're killing that guy. Close the gate. Close the gate. We have
gunshots. We have gunshots. Oh, my God. Right in front of us, dude.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HOUSLEY: Okay. So that was at 3:07 local time. 6:07 Eastern this evening for you
guys, that's afternoon for us. David Espinoza is the employee who was there,
Megyn. You're looking at the live, look down there now. They have it, obviously
surrounded by all sorts of -- the S.W.A.T. team is there but the bomb team as
well because they are having to actually take a look at what is inside that SUV.
They are concerned that it does have a bomb inside. I'm told they have not yet
reached the inside of the SUV. Obviously, a very delicate situation there. But
you can see the chaos. We are talking -- we are about a mile and a half from
where the murders took place. That factory where David Espinosa worked was being
shut down. The workers were going home.

People here in San Bernardino were basically hunkering down or going home. The
business day was ending because of what was going on here. No one knew where
those people were. We were actually right over by the command center. We had
kind of made our way down some railroad tracks. And we can see where the bomb
squad had come in. The FBI had a massive presence. Obviously local police forces
as well. And all of a sudden, we got a tip on my phone that said there was a
chase. Within seconds, it seems like, the battering ram left, the Special Forces
from the Police Department, left.

And that's when we got in our SUV and left and came here and that's where it
ended right down the street. So, as you can tell, Megyn, still very fluid here.
Investigations still ongoing. We heard about the Redlands situation where
they're doing the search warrant there. But I -- back to those names, that is
the reason why the FBI is being very delicate. As you know, it is a very
delicate situation in this country and they want to make sure they have it
exactly right. I'm told they're not going to tell us until they for sure get
into that vehicle and thoroughly go through it and see if there is any other
identification inside that kind of thing - - Megyn.

KELLY: So, they know -- what you're saying is they know the names, they just
don't want to release them until they ensure that the names they believe they
have are in fact the people they killed.

HOUSLEY: They think they know the names. And if you talked to them they won't go
on record obviously because of the situation. But I'll tell you, they've seen
those cell phone pictures. And now some of them have seen them in person
obviously as well. But certain folks seeing cell phone pictures up front, up
front, up close of these individuals. And obviously have an idea of their ethnic
background, if you will. Doesn't mean that has anything to do with this. I mean,
it could be workplace. But, you know, because of the delicate situation here,
Megyn, when you throw out a certain name or certain ethnicity, automatically
everybody jumps to terrorism. And that could be here. It could be. But it also
could be not. So, that's the reason why they are so delicate with us. And I
guess that's understandable, you know, because of the situation we are and not
only in this country but in this world.

KELLY: I want to rewrap (ph) that video, that extraordinary video you just
showed us. Because explain what happened. We just had Congressman King on
earlier saying, well, they traced the SUV back to the home of this one
individual. And that's one of the reasons why they are taking a hard look at the
guy. But now, you know, we are seeing the police chase with the SUV. Explain --
these two different reports, the SUV, how do they did? They stumble upon it?
What happened?

HOUSLEY: Well, there's a couple different reports here. We heard someone called
it in. Could be a multitude of things. Could be they traced it back and it could
be someone called it in also. But if you look at that video Megyn, it's not fast
chase, when David Espinoza pulled aside and he show me video, you can see, they
are only doing 35 or 40 miles an hour. As -- chases, that's not crazy. And then
you see the window being shot out. I was standing by the glass. It was insane
that it started there. Then a 100 yards later, it was the first real barrage of
gunfire. And then about another 150 yards is where it indeed and where they were
killed. And so, seems like a slow speed chase. Almost as if they were preparing
to fire back at the authorities. And you also notice there, it wasn't just
marked cruiser. A lot of unmarked cars. I mean, the police presence here is
massive, as you might expect and understandably so -- Megyn.

KELLY: Can we just, I don't know if we are able to rewrap it again. Because we
are trying to get the shot of the SUV.

HOUSLEY: Hey, Megyn, do you want to hear from David? Do you want to hear from
David? He is here.

KELLY: Yes. We would love to hear from David.

HOUSLEY: David Espinoza come over. David is the one who shot this video. Hold
on. He is coming over right now. I know you're working right here. I know, we
have spoken a couple of times. And I mean, your account is amazing. You guys
were shutting down, I'll give you a quick synopsis for those who don't know. You
were shutting down for the day. I talked to your boss. He wanted the employees
to go home. Be safe, hunker down, get out of here because no one knew what heck
was going on. We didn't know where these gunmen were. And then, all of a sudden,
you saw what?

ESPINOZA: All of a sudden, we just saw that SUV, normal traffic stop by the
police, and didn't stop where they were supposed to and all of a sudden we just
saw or heard the gunshot in the windows just shattered. We took a cover and then
they passed by us. That's when I was already recording at the time, you know, I
was already recorded something. And then from there, the second -- maybe 50 to
80 yards from us, that's when the second shooting appeared. Covered again. Took
cover. And then the last of the shots, it was a pretty scary moment.

HOUSLEY: I mean, you guys were outside. You realized, they were already outside
the fence, anyway. You thought it was just a traffic stop that would happen to
have a couple extra officers of course. You guys were going to go home any way.

ESPINOZA: Uh-hm.

HOUSLEY: But then when you heard the gunfire as you see on the video, I mean,
you guys were like, holy smokes, in different words.

ESPINOZA: Yes. Exactly. And then when I saw them, when I saw the parade of all
the police officers coming, units, the FBI, ATF all chasing them, like, oh, this
is them. This is them. And when I saw part of their faces. I just couldn't
believe that that was them. And it is happening here in front of us.

HOUSLEY: Surreal.

ESPINOZA: Very surreal. Yes. Exactly. It happens everywhere. Now it is happening
here.

HOUSLEY: I know one of your bosses said, he you know, he knows AK-47s -- all
sorts of speculation, obviously they had powerful weapons, and we heard from the
press conference, now knowing that, I mean, troubling.

ESPINOZA: Yes, it is. I mean, having that right in front of us, in front of, you
know, some of the place where, you know, I was talking to outside of the, you
know, escorted them outside -- take cover -- you know, just -- they were scary
noises.

HOUSLEY: You want to show that video one more time, Megyn. I want to ask you too
real quickly, when you look at your phone after it all went down and you look at
the video again, pretty amazing.

ESPINOZA: Sure was. Like a wow, I actually recorded that. And it's happening.
And listening to the gunshots, especially the gunshots, listening to those, you
know, it was really, really ugly.

HOUSLEY: David Espinoza, we appreciate your time. Thanks for your safe. And as
you can tell Megyn, a lot of people in this town are a bit shaken. I spoke to a
woman earlier who has hunkered down in a closet with her dog. She's now been
told -- and viewers actually e-mail and tweet me, she is okay. She's been
allowed to come out of her closet with her dogs and reunited with her husband.
So, very tense moments here and still honestly, some tense moments. So, we don't
know truly where this case goes at this point.

KELLY: Uh-hm. And of course on everybody's mind, even if this is not terrorism,
in a way we understood it in Paris, France, we understood from that attack --
there were other attackers who were part of it. Who were lurking. Who wanted to
unleash another attack just days later. And even if this is something other than
that kind of terrorism, of course that is in the back of people's minds.

HOUSLEY: Yes.

KELLY: Adam, thank you. We'll be back to you.

Well, our next guest was working in a building across the street from today's
attack when she heard what she thought sounded like gunshots from an automatic
weapon. Just a short time later, she would find herself providing refuge for
some of the folks who managed to escape as they explain to her the horrors they
had just witnessed moments before. Sandy Wood is the executive director of the
Inland Empire Lighthouse for the Blind.

She joins us now by phone. Sandy, thank you very much for being here. So, what
was the first time you had that something had gone wrong?

SANDY WOOD, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, INLAND EMPIRE LIGHTHOUSE FOR THE BLIND (on the
phone): Megyn, I believe it was about 10 minutes to 11. Or 10 minutes after
11:00 when I heard the gunshot ring out. It was a loud noise. I immediately
moved away from my windows. I'm on the second floor, my office is. And I went to
the back of my desk and called 911 to report I was hearing shots fired. That
same moment, one of my employees came running up the stairs saying, Sandy,
there's gunshots. So, I reported it to the Police Department. They told me they
were getting other calls and police were on their way. So, I hung up and I got
on the intercom system, we're a school for visually impaired, we have about 60
folks there at our school today and I announced to stay in the classroom and
lock the doors and that police were on their way.

KELLY: Oh, good gracious. You're telling me you have 60 blind people in the
school, who now are wondering where the gunshots are coming from, and you have
to go on lock down because there is real danger and there is a mass murder
happening across the street.

WOOD: And at that time, Kelly, we didn't even know that. At that particular
moment, we did not know that there was a mass murder going on. This is 200 feet
away from our facility. But there was loud gunfire. It stopped for a moment and
then it started again. So we just locked the doors. Then shortly thereafter,
there was people running from the building. Three of the people came into our
facility. We closed the door and locked it again. Of course, they were very
shaken, and upset. They were in the conference room when this shooting happened.
None of these guys were hurt. One of the gentleman had fallen from running and
he had a couple of injuries on his hands. It was a frightening experience.

KELLY: So, was it three men who came in?

WOOD: Yes. Three people.

KELLY: What were the ages of the men who came into your facility?

WOOD: Oh, in their 30s, 40s.

KELLY: And describe their condition. First of all, before we get to what they
said. How did they appear to you?

WOOD: Shaken.

KELLY: So they come.

WOOD: Very shaken.

KELLY: They come in and what -- how did they explain what they had just
witnessed?

WOOD: Well one, the third guy that came in, he was hiding behind our - - the
vehicles parked on the streets. So I opened the door and I called out and said,
"Do you need to come in here?" And so the two guys that were already in the
building that came from the shooting scene said "Yes, we know him." So he came
in and all three of them were just, you know, talking it each other, trying to
console each other. All three of them had been present when the shooting
happened.

KELLY: How did they describe it, Sandy? We've heard so many conflicting reports.

WOOD: I know. That they described somebody dressed in black with the masks on,
and assault rifle, a bulletproof vest, and they weren't sure if it was somebody
that was already in the conference room or they had come into the conference
room.

(CROSSTALK)

KELLY: Sorry, go ahead.

WOOD: I think people's memories are jagged when you're struck with an incident
like that, so it was -- it wasn't really clear what had happened.

KELLY: Did they tell you what they were doing in the conference room, to begin
with?

WOOD: It's -- I'm under the impression, it was a San Bernardino County seminar
-- conference going on in this meeting room and that there was about 50 people
present.

KELLY: Because we had heard also that there -- it was a Christmas party. Did
these guys say they were at Christmas party?

WOOD: No. No, they did not. Neither -- none of the three said anything about a
Christmas party.

KELLY: So they were there doing business?

WOOD: I understand it was a seminar -- conference training session for San
Bernardino County employees.

KELLY: Any particular kind of employees?

WOOD: I'm thinking it was from environmental services.

KELLY: Now, did they say anything, there had been some reports unconfirmed, that
someone was there became upset, laughed and came back. And that's when the
shooting occurred. Did they speak to that at all?

WOOD: No, they did not.

KELLY: Did they say, and I'll realize that the shooter or shooters were wearing
masks. But did they express any recognition of these -- of the killers?

WOOD: No, because as time was going on and the detectives and the police were
there talking to everyone, there was no description. They couldn't tell if it
was male or female or any kind of description of the shooter.

KELLY: Was anything said by the killers?

WOOD: Not that I heard.

KELLY: And how did the men describe the victims, the state of the room?

WOOD: One man told me that he was sitting right next to a girl that got shot. We
saw several people looked like maybe they were victims in the parking lot across
the street, after some people were being vacated. One of my frat members said
they thought they saw lifeless bodies being carried away. I never really saw and
the ambulance did from my view, from our building but apparently, there were
fatalities.

KELLY: How did the mean get out?

WOOD: From the conference room.

KELLY: Yeah.

WOOD: Where they came from?

KELLY: Yeah.

WOOD: I think they just ran out the door and ran across the street.

KELLY: During the shooting?

WOOD: Yes.

KELLY: So.

WOOD: I believe so.

KELLY: They've made a run for it while the shooting was under -- undergoing --
while under it was underway.

WOOD: I believe so, Kelly.

KELLY: I mean I can't imagine that the shock you saw on their faces. I mean, we
all go to work every day. We go, you know, we go around fellow human beings
every day, we engage in conferences, we engage in discussions and to go from a
normal moment, one second to witnessing the people around you getting shot and
dying the next. What.

WOOD: Yes.

KELLY: What -- how did you read it on them?

WOOD: They were shaken. They didn't know what was going on. They fled the scene.
And they were -- one gentleman -- he use my phone to call his wife. They were
absolutely petrified, as was everyone in the Lighthouse at this moment. It was
really frightening. And then you have a moment and you realize all of our lives
could have ended at that very moment, when you start realizing -- there was mass
murder 200 feet away from our building. And thankfully, we thanked the good
Lord, all 60 of our staff members and blind students are safe and no one is
injured at the Lighthouse for the Blind.

KELLY: Thank goodness for that. Last question, did you hear the man's
conversation with his wife? Did you hear how that went?

WOOD: Yes. He told her he was safe and there was a shooting, and that he was OK.
He was reassuring her. She was a grocery store worker.

KELLY: Wow. Thank you so much Sandy Wood. We appreciate you giving us the time
tonight, all the best to you.

WOOD: Kelly, thank you for covering this event and thank you for a -- your
support and bringing this to the -- to your audience.

KELLY: We'll stay on it. Well, at this hour, we are told that police are
searching the home of one of these shooting suspects. Again, two are dead, one
described as a third suspect, who has been detained -- was detained. The police
said because this person was seen running away from the SUV when police
confronted it. They said they were not sure whether this person had actually
anything to do with the crime, but they are at the house of one of the suspects
right now looking for new clues. Trace Gallagher tracking this part of the
story, live from the west coast newsroom. Trace?

TRACE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: And Megyn, we have a producer on the scene
right now where that search warrant is being served in Redlands, which is the
very same area where police picked up the suspect vehicle today, that led to the
shootout between the suspects and police, where two suspects were killed. Our
producer is now telling us that a short time ago, they actually sent a robot
inside the house and just minutes ago or a minute ago, he heard a large bang, an
explosion. It's unclear if that was the robot detonating some kind of explosive
device or if it was an actual explosive device.

Remember, earlier today, after the shooting, police sent in another robot into
the Regional Center because there was concern that there was an explosive device
in there. In fact, tonight in the press conference, the police said that they
believe there was still an explosive device inside the Regional Center that they
were concerned about and they were focusing on. So if you go back to this, where
the search warrant is being served tonight, this apparently is the home of one
of the suspects. It's unclear if it is a house or an apartment, Megyn. But
again, this is what led police the name and the date of birth led police to this
area today. And that name and date of birth, leading them to the area, they came
across the suspect vehicle. The suspect vehicles took off. They pursued and the
next thing you know there is a low speed chase, 35 to 40 miles per hour, and
then the shooting started when the two suspect were killed.

What police are really focusing on inside this apartment or house is of course,
the computers and any evidence that might be inside, figuring out exactly who
these people are and what their motive was and what their ties were to this
mental health department group that was actually inside the conference room.
They had leased out the conference room for the day. Inside the conference room,
wondering what connection might have been to the suspects and to the people
inside. Because the reports are that they were actually targeting somebody or
some people that were inside this conference room. Right now, police are trying
to tie it all together. This whole search warrant could provide them with an
extreme amount of information inside what they believe is one of the suspect's
homes -- Megyn.

KELLY: Trace, we'll back to you. As police begin to investigate a possible
motive, my next guest, a former top official at the FBI has been analyzing this
shooting in San Bernardino, and was not surprised to see that terrorism has not
been ruled out. As assistant director of the FBI in New York in the 1990s, James
Kallstrom led the FBI's criminal investigation into the crash of flight TWA 800.
He later oversaw all matters relating to counterterrorism and security for the
state of New York as senior advisor for the governor in the years following
9/11. James Kallstrom joins us tonight by phone, James, thank you very much for
being with us. Your reaction to what we heard tonight from the FBI?

JAMES KALLSTROM, FORMER FBI ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: Well, I think they have reason
to go down that road. Obviously, I don't know what that reason is, Megyn, but it
looks that way. The complicated matter doesn't -- should any particular nice set
of facts where, you know, that creates a mental case or love triangle or even
terrorism for that matter that we're used to, so it is a little bit different.
But it's -- after the fact, I think the police units did a great job. You know,
you mentioned earlier that the -- they probably felt trapped. They didn't want
to get out on the major highways and good police work got them to that home. I
think we will gonna know what awful lot more in a short period of amount of
time. If it is terrorism, if it is international, you know, jihadist terrorism,
it's only gonna put additional exclamation points on to the things that I have
been talking to you about for a long time, Megyn.

And particularly, why we need to get NSA back in the game? Because you know, we
don't have hours and days to fool around trying to find out who is talking to
who. And, you know, we need the real-time. And that type of advantage is gonna
save lives. And we need -- of course we need more people working on the FBI and.

(CROSSTALK)

KALLSTROM: I don't want to get into shy that is or what the shortfalls are
because I don't want to give our crazed adversaries and the advantage of what I
might comment on. But I can tell you without question, that, you know, this is a
serious matter, whatever it is and I feel so sorry for all of those people that
were mowed down. And it is just unbelievable.

KELLY: I mean, let's talk about the things. Obviously, one of the things they
are looking at is this radical Islamic terrorism. That's -- it's gonna come --
be the first thing that comes to your mind in any situation like this, given
what we saw in Paris. But let's talk about the things that suggest you, it might
not be that. I mean, for example, one of the things I've heard is what radical
Islamist goes in and targets one county executive meeting.

KALLSTROM: Right.

KELLY: And doesn't shoot up the rest of the building and.

KALLSTROM: Right, right.

KELLY: Escapes. You know what that was.

KALLSTROM: No, that's right. I mean, that's right, we.

KELLY: And doesn't have more carnage.

KALLSTROM: Right, well. You know, I guess, you know, we shouldn't be there -- we
shouldn't be a victim of what we see as the usual and past, but you're right.
They will then ignore the people on the first floor and went up to the
conference room. You know, why would you do that, I mean, if you're looked at
all of the experience we've had the last two decades, you know, that's not the
normal modus operandi. So it just throw you a little bit off but -- but
obviously, you know these people evolve and they are revolving only in daily and
they're very sophisticated and they're very smart. And, you know, one way of
terrorizing us is to really put us off our normal game plan and put us off on
what we normally expect. So I don't see that as unusual.

KELLY: Do you -- would you describe this as a sophisticated attack?

KALLSTROM: I would. I mean, from the standpoint of planning, I think - -
obviously, they cased, the area that they wanted to carry out. They -- unlike
most of the ones in the past, they apparently, according to the news media, were
wearing body armor. Which means they were not about to sacrifice themselves.
They are those virgins up there. They were going to come back to fight another
day. And that's somewhat of an advantage to us and I hope we're going to find
out an awful lot more.

And -- then of course, we have to act on this stuff quickly. And we have to know
it quickly. We have to know the, you know, the tangles of this spider web that's
a conspiracy. If it is a conspiracy and we have to act very quickly because, you
know, the day might come when the simultaneous events going on, so we just don't
have the time. And we need to review, you know, the attorney general guidelines
so that the FBI can react quicker. You know, the general public can do things
the FBI has to jump through hoops forward, which is really insane.

KELLY: Again, considering -- the FBI says, you know, considering everything and
they haven't ruled out terror in the way we understand that term. How -- if you
rule it out, just for the purposes of this discussion, that this is, you know,
Islamic terrorism. How bizarre would it be, James, to have a disgruntled worker,
for example? If this is workplace violence, go home and get a spouse, a
girlfriend, a friend, you know a female. Maybe it was reverse, maybe it was the
woman who, you know, and then comeback. I mean to get somebody else to
sacrifice, potentially, their own life.

KALLSTROM: I don't think that's ever happened, Megyn.

KELLY: Just to kill a bunch of people because you're ticked off.

KALLSTROM: Yeah. I don't think it's ever happened before. It doesn't make any
sense.

KELLY: So what do you think that law enforcement agencies right now are doing?

KALLSTROM: Well, they are covering a lot of leads, you know. They are looking at
the -- hopefully, they're getting devices out of that home. They are looking at,
and hopefully there are devices in that car once they get through the bobby
traps. You know, they're gonna be - they're gonna be doing all kinds of
intelligence. You know, where these people, if it turns out to be Middle East
Islamic radicals, you know, were they on the -- were they on the list. Were they
someone that the Director Comey was talking about.

KELLY: Well, to that point, James. Early tonight, President Obama made remarks
on the shooting. It was very early before we had a lot of information. And he
was lamenting the ease with which people can get guns in the country. And in
that context, he, as an example of why he thinks the gun laws needs to be
revised. He said people who are on the no-fly list. You know, terror suspects
are on the no-fly list, can still get guns. We need to do something about that.
Which caught a lot of people by surprise, asking -- wait. Is that a general
comment or has he been told something about this case, because he said it in the
second paragraph of a long answer responding to this case.

KALLSTROM: I don't think he is totally in particular about that. I mean, it's
kind of crazy that someone on the no-fly list can get a gun, that's crazy, but
has been huge problem with the no-fly list. And the government just has an awful
time, you know, building automated systems and they're pay, you know, millions
and millions of dollars with things they has -- the regular private sector, you
know spends thousands on. We need to do a better job with government regulations
that slow down, you know, the ability for the bureau and other agencies to keep
up with technology. You know on this black stones that people can operate on,
you know, that's a huge, huge encumbrance. You know, and -- to say what you
want, you know, that you see how you and the rest of you out there -- say wants
you want. But if that's your family that's being held or that's your family
that's in the target zone, you know, you probably think twice about that,
wouldn't you?

You know, so we have to react to the times and we can't be tied to the '90s and
the '80s. We can't be tied to an AT&T run the whole communication system in the
whole world and it is a much different time. It's geometrically more different
today than it was a decade ago.

KELLY: James Kallstrom, thank you for being here tonight, Sir.

KALLSTROM: My great pleasure, Megyn.

KELLY: So right now, police are searching the home of one of the suspects
(inaudible) left. Plus, we are awaiting new details in the news conference, just
ahead. We heard the last one was chalk full of information and now we are
expecting to get another one. And we will take another look at our exclusive
video of the shoot-out earlier. We were gonna take a two- minute break.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Gunshot.

KELLY: We'll be right back.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Gunshot.

(Police car sirens)

KELLY: Breaking tonight, we now have live pictures coming back from the search
of this suspect's home in the San Bernardino shooting. Jonathan Hunt is live
there with the latest, Jonathan?

JONATHAN HUNT, FOX NEWS CHIEF CORRESPONDENT: Megyn, the focus right now on
Redlands that is about five miles from San Bernardino, where the original
shooting happened, the Police and other law enforcement personnel moving very
slowly, very deliberately around a specific property in Redlands. Our producer
on the scene sent us back some video of a robotic vehicle moving towards that
property. Our producer (inaudible) also told us he heard the sound of a small
explosion. It sounded like a detonation to him. Clearly, police have some
information that has led them to this house, possibly part of the ID that is
being floating around for some time now. We have known a specific name for
several hours, as have you, we have not said it on air yet, we have not had it
confirmed officially, but that name is out there and we believe that that
property may be connected to that name.

Separately, they're also surrounding the SUV, where the huge gun battle took
place. They've been moving in very carefully around there. Although, they do say
that a pipe, a piece of pipe that was thrown from that SUV, before the two
suspects in it were shot dead, was not an explosive device, Megyn.

KELLY: That is news. OK, Jonathan, thank you very much. Join in us now with
more, Ron Hosko, former assistant director of the FBI and Joshua Katz, former
CIA operations officer who now specializes in Homeland Security and
Intelligence, great to see you both. Ron, let me start with you. We're not
saying this name of this person, because it hasn't been confirmed. Others have
gone with it, we're choosing not to until it's confirmed. However, the question
is that the person that they're discussing may have worked for the very bureau
that may have been having the conference there that afternoon. And to what
extent do you believe the FBI would be looking at the possibility of
self-radicalization and that potential in selecting a target?

RON HOSKO, FORMER ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF THE FBI: I think they would absolutely
be looking at that and other possibilities, Megyn. I was trying to read the
words and the thoughts of my friend David Bowditch, as he spoke earlier, and his
tone gives me great pause. It has me believing that.

KELLY: He's the FBI head in L.A.

HOSKO: That's right, that there's a terror a nexus to this. Frequently, in so
many prior active shooting cases. Look at Jared Loughner, look at Adam Lanza of
Sandy Hook, Aaron Alexis here at the Navy yard, occasion after occasion of
active shooter. And very quickly, after this scene that the gun powder, the dust
settled at the scenes, you have an understanding of the drivers. And frequently,
it's mental illness. We're not hearing that yet. And so, you want to take that
raw active shooter driver off the table, and say what else was at work here?

KELLY: Josh.

HOSKO: Was it a hybrid? Was this somebody who this was -- he was going to get
revenge and then go into other terror attacks? So I'm sure the bureau is looking
and they'll be working all night tonight on trying to figure out the networks
and understand what was going on here.

KELLY: Josh, what significance of any does it have to you that the person found
with the male suspect in this SUV was a female?

JOSHUA KATZ, FORMER CIA OPERATIONS OFFICER: I think, Megyn, what that tells us
is that anybody can be a perpetrator and anybody can be a victim. And there's no
line here anymore. There's no definitive profile of people that commit these
horrible acts. And I think that that's what we really need to understand here,
is that anybody can be an attacker, and we all have to be aware.

KELLY: Is there any -- I mean, what happened with that SUV was a shootout in
which the two suspects were killed. Now there's a third person whose been
detained. And we don't know whether that person is involved in this or not. But
how do you imagine that debrief of that person is going right now, Ron?

HOSKO: Well, the bureau, they're memo in engaging in interviews like this is
really to try to build some rapport, get the person talking, understand what
their drivers are and work them to the truth. And that may be peeling back
layers of lies and initial lies in rebutting those lies, but it's ultimately to
get their cooperation. This is a serious --very serious incident, we have
multiple dead, multiple homicides here, multiple aggravated batteries on other
victims. So there is a real price to be paid, but there's an opportunity for
someone to tell us what the entire plot looks like.

KELLY: And just to confirm what we have on the bottom of the screen, two rifles,
two handguns recovered so far during the investigation. And now the reports of a
pipe bomb seem to be falling apart. That may be a piece of a pipe was thrown and
not an actual bomb. Josh, how much do we grim of anything from the fact that we
saw the, you know, the robotic bomb detector going into that home moments ago?
It would -- that just be out of an abundance of caution or would they have had
to see something that looks an awful lot like a bomb.

KATZ: No. I think the police and the SWAT teams and the authorities are really
on-edge because they don't know what they're walking into. So sending the robot
in is out of an abundance of caution. And what would I say is that the explosion
and the concussion or whatever it was that people heard, could have just also
been out of an abundance of caution. So we don't know what we don't know and we
shouldn't jump to any sort of conclusions here, because as you're talking,
things are developing and the situation. We're learning more and things are
changing. So we need to proceed carefully.

KELLY: Absolutely. And we're going to get an actual update from police very
soon. So stay tuned for that. Gentleman, thank you.

HOSKO: Thank you.

KELLY: In the hour since the attack, even before we know the motive, the intent
or even the suspect's identity. There has been a wave of new calls for gun
control. And when republican candidates for president sent out messages, calling
for support and prayers for the victims, they were attacked in some instance --
instances by some commentators. Even the New York Daily News, which is running
this cover tomorrow, saying "God isn't fixing this, he's gotten into it." I'll
show you in a second.

Dana Perino is here. She was the White House press secretary for President
George W. Bush and co-host of The Five. Dana, immediately it turns to gun
control, and I think, you know, Americans are -- whatever you're stance on gun
control, they're fed up. They're fed up with the weekly updates on mass killings
in the United States.

DANA PERINO, THE FIVE SHOW CO-HOST: I think that President Obama could actually
find common ground with people on that, but he immediately decided to respond,
when actually because we've seen -- as you seen with the Breaking News, even
during your hour, Megyn. You have developments that are showing America that we
-- still don't know exactly what happened, and this could actually be much more
serious than something that we haven't seen before, right? In America, or this
something new and different, we don't know that.

And so there's a tremendous desire to respond. There's a lot of pressure to
respond, but leaders should not comment like the comment section on a website.
Like what you want is clarity and calm, and there is merit for leaders, either
candidates or the president to just wait and say, he's been informed, she has
been informed, and we will update you as soon as you know more from the
authorities.

KELLY: Because what we hear, you know the president came out pretty quickly, he
made a comment about gun control. And that is a cause that is near and dear to
many, in particular on the left in this country. However, that can be very
alienating to the gun right supporters in the country and the best gun laws in
the world might very well not have protected -- prevented somebody who may be a
terrorist from unleashing carnage.

PERINO: Right. And so then people then who also feel very strongly that their
gun -- that the right to have a gun under the Second Amendment, that they would
feel like they were being attacked. And so immediately, everybody goes to their
corners rather than trying to figure out number one, what happened. Number two,
are there any laws on the books that should have been enforced that weren't, and
are there laws that we should pass that could have prevented it. And I don't
think any of those are known tonight. And when the president speaks, he will
always have the (inaudible). He didn't have to do that tonight and I think it
actually did not do him any favors and the same I would say for O'Malley and
Clinton.

KELLY: Because people's tensions run high after something like this. This is
not, not that it would make it any better for Washington or New York, as we seen
ISIS threaten to target. But this is, this is, you know, hometown, U.S.A. and
everyone -- many people in many towns tonight may be feeling on-edge that it
could happen anywhere.

PERINO: And there is no harm in expressing the sympathy and the worry and the
prayers, I might add, Megyn, which also believe it or not, prayers even became
controversial tonight. But I think that all of us should offer our prayers to
those families and those who have been shaken by this today. And as we learn
more about it, we're going to need more faith as well as our leaders to be calm
and provide us clarity, not reckless comments.

KELLY: Dana Perino, thank you. It's so great to see you -- always thoughtful. So
the situation in San Bernardino is this, 14 people are dead. Another 17 have
been wounded, many seriously. And the death toll could rise. We are keeping our
eye on the situation there, and waiting for another update from law enforcement.
They have promised to come out shortly and we expect another update, not just on
the injured, but also on the status of this third suspect. And what is going on
in the house of the one suspect that they have been searching. The word has been
used raiding for some time. Sean Hannity is here live, next. I'll be back at
midnight, stay with us.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120201cb.251

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                           December 2, 2015 Wednesday

                         SHOW: FOX HANNITY 10:00 PM EST

FBI Won't Rule Out Terrorism in San Bernardino Shooting

BYLINE: Sean Hannity, Jonathan Hunt, Catherine Herridge, Bo Dietl, Adam Housley,
Jonathan Hunt, Catherine Herridge

GUESTS: Mark Fuhrman, Manny Gomez, Eric Guster, Manny Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 17886  words


SEAN HANNITY, HOST: And welcome to "Hannity." And this is a "FOX News Alert."
The FBI will not rule out terrorism as a possible motive in today's deadly
shooting rampage in San Bernardino, California, which left 14 dead, 17 people
injured.

Tonight, we have dramatic new video of the gun battle between police and the
suspects earlier tonight. Watch this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Something's going on! Something's going on! There they go.
They're after that guy. They're after that guy! Guns! Gunshots! Gunshots!
Gunshots! (INAUDIBLE) did you see that?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (INAUDIBLE) shots?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes. There were gunshots -- oh (EXPLETIVE DELETED)! Oh, we
better get down, bro.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: Now, police say two of the suspects were killed in that shootout and
have been identified, one man, one woman. And a third person was detained at the
scene, but authorities have not said if this person was involved.

Adam Housley obtained that video exclusively for FOX News. He's live on the
ground where that gun battle took place with the police -- Adam.

ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Sean, in fact, the gun battle began behind
me. David Espinosa (ph) was the witness who shot that video.

I'm going to step away. It's dark. You're going to see it's a little bit grainy,
but you can see what's going on. They've moved all of us back now pretty
significantly, maybe, oh, a half -- no, a quarter mile from where the actual SUV
is located. You can see the flashing lights there right now.

They've been taking their time with the vehicle and that area because they were
concerned of a explosive device possibly being on that location. We do know that
they've been able to get a lot closer, and I believe they've been able to get a
lot more out of that truck.

You're seeing the video now of what took place in between where I'm standing and
that -- those lights you saw a moment ago. David shot that video. They had come
out -- the factory actually shut down for the day. People were going to go home
because of the uncertainty that was in San Bernardino throughout the midday and
afternoon about these shooters. No one knew where they were or what had happened
here.

And then as that was happening, they walk out to see what they thought was
police pulling over a car for speeding at about 40 miles an hour on a street
that -- that would have been fast for. And all of a sudden, the back window shot
out, as you heard. Then you hear about 100 yards later, more gunfire going back
and forth between both unmarked police cars and regular police cars and then --
and the suspects, as well.

And then about 150 yards further is where it all culminated, just past the
stoplight where the SUV came to rest and the female and male suspects were
killed. And that is where the investigation continues.

Not long after that -- we weren't very far away -- in fact, you can see the
truck, you can see the intersection. We were probably only 150 yards away
ourselves when we all began to be moved back. We thought it was because they
were expanding the crime scene and wanted to make sure they got all the
witnesses kept in.

But what was happening, Sean, is there was a barricaded situation not far from
here, just basically a block or two to the south of where that was located. And
that was ongoing for some time, as well.

So a very tense situation even here now. No one really knows if these three
potential -- the other person that was talked about being in custody -- are
these the only people involved? Is that third person even involved?

We of course, have a situation in Redlands ongoing, so there are -- and you hear
random police sirens around. I will tell you this, the police helicopters have
gone down. That's something new. In the last maybe half an hour, there had been
up to three up, my count, even as recently as a half an hour ago.

We still hear random sirens all around this side of town. We're on the eastern
part of San Bernardino, which is roughly a mile-and-a-half from where the
murders took place, Sean.

I'll tell you this also. We got tipped off by -- that one of the suspects that
was killed was a female. We've also been tipped off of some names. I know you've
heard the names, as well.

I talked to federal law enforcement and local law enforcement involved with this
case directly right now. The issue is, they're not getting any directive from
Washington or anywhere else. This is within their own agencies.

They know it's a sensitive situation in this country right now. They're trying
to determine exactly the names, as you might imagine. At least one, they
believe, could be Middle Eastern.

But part of the reason why they were holding back, Sean, is they wanted to get
into that SUV, ensure that those IDS, or any information that might be in there,
would help them secure what those names are. So that's why they're being very
delicate, at least the people that I know involved in the case, that's why
they're being very delicate. And it's understandably why they're doing that.

But they have -- one individual I spoke to, you know, has seen, obviously, the
two dead suspects, and says, you know, that obviously, there are some concerns
there, but they cannot connect that dot yet, Sean.

HANNITY: Well, the FBI spokesman was very clear they're not ruling out
terrorism. Now you're reporting that, in fact...

HOUSLEY: Right.

HANNITY: ... one of the -- one of the people involved, one of those shot and
killed, is Middle Eastern, so I'm sure that'll raise some questions in some
people's minds.

HOUSLEY: Well...

HANNITY: Why no description...

HOUSLEY: The name...

HANNITY: Why no -- go ahead.

HOUSLEY: The key -- yes, sorry, Sean. You were hitting the point right there.
The key is the name. It doesn't mean they're Middle Eastern. You know, it could
be an American citizen with a Middle Eastern name.

It's the name and the potentially again the look, unfortunately -- and I'm not
saying that's what it is, but they have to take all that into account. You know,
you take into account if it's a young white man, you take into account if it's a
man of Middle Eastern descent. You take into account whatever the person is.

And in this case, because of the delicate nature, because of the situation going
on with ISIS, Middle Eastern terrorism, all that situation that's happening,
they have to be -- they have to make sure they get it right and they want to
make sure they get it right the first time. And that's why I'm told they're
being so sensitive with this.

But yes, one of the names they were originally given and what they believed
before they got into that SUV -- and I haven't talked to the person since they
got into the SUV -- was a Middle Eastern name.

HANNITY: All right...

HOUSLEY: And the individual, who was responding to the scene who saw the cell
phone video from one of the other agents, said that one of the suspects looked
Middle Eastern in face. But that doesn't mean that the person was, and he hadn't
seen him yet in person. He was going off on his situation on coming here to the
scene.

HANNITY: Well, what do you know about the ongoing FBI raid at the home where
they suspect that these two people lived?

HOUSLEY: Well, one of our producers, Dan Gallo (ph), is out there right now. He
said he heard an improvised explosion device, meaning it was a device done by
authorities. It was planned, I should say, planned explosion, as if they were
destroying something. Doesn't mean that was a bomb. A lot of times, they'll blow
up something that might appear to be such just to save everybody the hassle of
having to get near it.

and there's obviously that going on right now. That's still fluid, as well.
Redlands is not far from here. You got to believe that if that just happened
recently, that to me intimates they probably got into the SUV and got some more
information out of it.

I know that one of the issues they were having, Sean, is they felt there was
more information inside and they wanted to ensure the safety before their
investigators got in and were able to go through any personal artifacts that
might be in there.

They saw some inside. That's one reason why they were being delicate with that.
So was it a purse, was it a wallet? I don't know? They won't go into that kind
of detail. But that's potentially what resulted in Redlands. At least that may
have helped them with that part of the investigation.

Sean, as I was told by one of the other officers -- I talked to somebody, same
person that told me earlier that they were -- before they had this chase and
before all this went down, they said, you know, We have to go out there with the
belief that we have three people with assault rifles that are wearing tactical
gear. And that's what they had, at least in this case, at least with the two
here.

And so that same individual says, you know, even though it looks like we might
have these two and possibly a third contained, there still may be other folks
along with them. We don't know yet, Adam. And there's still a lot of
investigation to do.

And really, as you know, Sean, in these situations, that is the truth. I mean,
is there a cell here? Was it workplace violence that happened to be someone with
a Middle Eastern name? There's a lot of variables that have to be taken into
account. And in this situation in the world right now, you've got to be very
delicate with that. And that's what I think they're doing in this case.

And I can understand why, especially considering they don't want to make a
mistake because then, of course, that really will come back with a lot of
backlash and political stuff that they don't want to deal with. They just want
to get it right the first time.

HANNITY: All right, Adam Housley, a lot of unanswered questions. We'll be
checking in with Adam throughout the night tonight.

HOUSLEY: Absolutely.

HANNITY: Joining us now on the ground, also in San Bernardino, California, is
our own Jonathan Hunt. Jonathan, can you tell us more about what's going on in
the -- in terms of the FBI raid of this home?

JONATHAN HUNT, FOX CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Sean, the focus is on one particular
property in Redlands. Now, that location about five miles from the original
shooting incident, where those 14 people were gunned down and killed, another 17
at least injured.

Now, what's going on in Redlands right now is that police and other law
enforcement personnel moving very deliberately, very slowly into that property.
Our producer, Dan Gallo, was on the ground and sent us some video earlier of a
robotic vehicle going towards the front door of that property.

Dan also reported hearing what he described as a detonation, that -- his thought
was that that sounded like they were blowing up something that they had found in
or around that property.

Now, the property, as we understand it, is connected to one of the two suspects
who were shot and killed in that fierce gun battle with the police when they
found and followed the dark SUV that they believe the suspects were in. They
were fired on from that SUV. Cops fired back, and as I said, the male and female
suspects within that SUV were both killed.

Now, one of those -- and we don't know which one he was or even if it was both
of them -- were connected to this residence in Redlands. That's why they went
there. Obviously, you have heard the police chief talking all day about the
possibility of booby traps, the possibility of pipe bombs. That's why they're
moving very carefully.

One other point on the question of pipe bombs, Sean. We had a news conference a
short time ago with authorities here, and they said that a piece of pipe of some
description was thrown from that SUV at some point. But they said -- and these
are their words -- it was not an explosive device, Sean.

HANNITY: All right, Jonathan. Thank you so much. We appreciate it.

The FBI is not, as we said, ruling out terrorism as a motive for today's deadly
attack. Joining us now in Washington with more on that is our own Catherine
Herridge. Catherine, as more information comes in, it seems more and more likely
this investigation is moving into that area that this could be a possible terror
attack.

CATHERINE HERRIDGE, FOX CORRESPONDENT: Well, Sean, based on the evidence so far,
a U.S. government official recently told FOX News that the central or prime
assailant in this case is a U.S. citizen. They did not provide more detail on
the suspect.

Now, for the last three to four hours, we've been working on a name here at FOX
News. It's a foreign-sounding name, if you will. We were originally told that it
had washed out. What we now understand is that when they ran that name against
the terror watch list, they did not have any positive hits. But at this hour,
we're told that that may well be the name of one of the suspects. We're seeking
a second source on that before we broadcast that name here at FOX News.

In Washington, the way the evening has played out is that the homeland security
secretary, Jeh Johnson, has been monitoring events, getting regular updates.
Same pattern, if you will, with President Obama, who's been getting regular
updates from his White House counterterrorism adviser, Lisa Monaco.

And there are a handful of facts that have everyone's attention here from an
investigative point of view. One is the wearing of this assault- type clothing.
The second is the use of assault weapons, rifles, as well as handguns, and the
possible use of these improvised explosive devices. All of this speaks to a
certain level of premeditation.

And then, finally, as we heard at that news conference, the growing involvement
of the FBI -- one of our FBI contacts here in Washington this evening was
working to confirm if, in fact, the FBI was going to become the lead agency in
this case. If that turns out to be true...

HANNITY: Hey, Catherine...

HERRIDGE: ... that would be the strongest indicator of terrorism.

HANNITY: If I could just interrupt you for a second? Please forgive me. What we
are seeing now is one of the assailants (sic) at the apartment which Jonathan
Hunt was describing. You can see the robotic device going in. Obviously, the
police saw something there that indicates that there might be some type of booby
trap, some type of IED device. And I'm sure out of an abundance of caution, that
is being sent in for the protection of the...

HERRIDGE: Well, that's correct.

HANNITY: ... officers prior to the investigation But that is a live shot of that
robotic piece of equipment going into that apartment.

You can go back to your report, Catherine.

HERRIDGE: Sure.

HANNITY: But we now have learned two things, potentially a Middle
Eastern-looking man, a foreign-sounding name that you're looking into. There
have been initial reports that this could have been some type of workplace
violence incident. Somebody went out of a party angry. They may have come back.
That seems less likely now as more information's coming in as time goes on.

HERRIDGE: Well, as we heard at the news conference, that was one of the specific
questions. The sheriff confirmed that there had been some sort of disagreement
or altercation at that community meeting. The individual had left. But it was
not clear to them, despite earlier reporting, that this individual returned
along with at least two others with their -- with their weapons.

Just to go back to that apartment shot, if you will, what a standard procedure
in this case is to use one of these robotic devices, if you will, to go in and
try and determine whether there are explosives, or it has been booby trapped.

What we gathered from the earlier news conference is that there was the use of
some kind of explosive device with the suspects, so they have to assume the
vehicle, the apartment, the addresses associated with these suspects may well
contain other explosives or booby traps, as well.

But the kind of surveillance, if you will, or situational awareness the FBI can
have on that property goes well beyond the robot that you're seeing right there.
Once the bureau makes a decision to focus on an address, they essentially can
get it inside what I would call this sort of electronic box.

And what I mean by that is that they will be accessing the phone system, the
wi-fi system, any kind of security camera system, putting their own probes into
that location to get a better, as I said, situational awareness of what is
inside that apartment building.

Just a final point. The FBI and local police have a lot more information then
they're making public. You heard that from Adam and you also heard that from
Jonathan Hunt.

I know that one of the things that's happening at this hour is that the FBI has
asked their counterterrorism contacts to start taking at least one of the names
and doing what they call an electronic scrub. That means that they look at
social media, they look at phone records, they look at anything that speaks to a
digital footprint for this individual to understand who their network of
associates are, as well as their activities leading up to today's events.

So we have the very visible part of the investigation that you can see now, this
going -- the raid of this apartment, the search of the SUV, and then we have
this sort of unseen chapter to the investigation, as well.

HANNITY: All right, Catherine Herridge, thanks so much.

HERRIDGE: You're welcome.

HANNITY: We are getting more information. We are now told that our producers,
our reporters on the ground outside of that apartment complex are now being told
to stand back, that they view this as a direct threat. The police have detected
that something is inside of that apartment where you see that robotic -- well, I
guess robot going in there to find out whatever that is.

But the police apparently suspect that there might be some type of booby trap,
IED device inside that apartment and they've now asked everybody in the area to
now move back. We're going to continue to watch this live as it unfolds.

Joining us now with reaction, former LAPD detective Mark Fuhrman, former NYPD
detective Bo Dietl, trial attorney, political commentator Eric Guster, former
FBI special agent Manny Gomez.

Mark, let me begin with you. You watched the robotics. You see at the place
where the shooting took place, where the two suspects were killed, Mark, and you
see all of these tactical vehicles that have been brought in. I have checked in
with my law enforcement sources in Los Angeles, FBI -- "All hands on deck," is
what I'm hearing. This seems to be bigger than what we are so far being told,
probably out of an abundance of caution. But what is your read on it?

MARK FUHRMAN, FORMER LAPD DETECTIVE: Well, we saw the press conference, Sean.
FBI says, We're not ruling out terrorism, which is FBI words that they're ruling
in terrorism. And that means that they'd rather be safe than sorry. So it's a
complete alert for all law enforcement agencies adjacent to San Bernardino
County. All assets of special units is being pulled to San Bernardino County and
they're working with multiple teams.

You have investigative teams that are working at that homicide location. You
have people that are assigned to the victims that can talk. They're trying to
glean any information they can. They're showing pictures of the suspects to the
people at the scene, people at the hospital, anybody that can talk. They're
trying to see the connection there. They're trying to see if they can try to
connect up any other suspects, or what we now know as or refer to as a cell,
where some group of people that could have been involved in this that they
haven't accounted for.

HANNITY: Yes. Manny, let me go and ask you, from the FBI's perspective, when you
hear "All hands on deck," when you see what's unfolding right now before our
very eyes, and you hear that little bits of information are being released from
Adam and Jonathan and Catherine, three of our best reporters, about perhaps
Middle Eastern, perhaps a foreign- sounding name, what do you take out of that?

MANNY GOMEZ, FORMER FBI SPECIAL AGENT: They're being very cautious. They
obviously know more than...

HANNITY: A lot more.

GOMEZ: ... they telling, a lot more than they're telling. But they're going to
be 1,000 percent sure as to the information that they let out. And they're also
going to vet it through their chain of command to see what is going to be the
flavor of the political correctness of what they let out.

HANNITY: You know, one of the things I noticed, Bo, is, you know, this was so
well prepared. They had their tactical device. They had their guns. They had
their weapons. They went in, according to eyewitnesses, they fired straight for
30 seconds, they dropped their clip, they reloaded, they shot again.

They got out. They had an escape vehicle, but yet they stayed in the area. They
knew -- they stayed in the same vehicle that was being reported for a couple of
hours, literally just a couple of miles from where the shooting took place.

So the question I have in my mind is, why would they stay so close? It tells me
when they could have gotten away that they're willing to go down with the cause
(ph).

BO DIETL, FMR. NYPD DETECTIVE, FOX CONTRIBUTOR: Yes, you know, and the other
thing is that it's just very -- it's a mystery there that there was an argument,
and it has been documented...

HANNITY: At the party.

DIETL: At the party, where a guy stormed out there. Was there something that was
said that heated this guy up, where he ran back and got his friends, one female,
one other guy, and come back and wanted to do exactly what they wanted to do?

Look, it may turn out to be that their Middle East-sounding name -- we don't
know, on fact, if they're a cell or anything like that. That will all be put
together.

HANNITY: But listen, we don't know the answer. Nobody can say definitively. The
FBI is telling us that they're not ruling out terrorism. But after Paris...

DIETL: You always got to look at the motive. The motive...

(CROSSTALK)

HANNITY: ... were well prepared.

DIETL: Why did they go to the second floor, going into that room and shoot those
people? Why didn't they just blast people on the way up?

HANNITY: 670 people work in that building. So it seems like...

DIETL: You could have got a lot more...

(CROSSTALK)

DIETL: You could have got a lot more body count.

HANNITY: You could have, if they wanted...

DIETL: And they were fully armed there. So what I'm saying is they went into
that room for a specific reason. When we find out what the motive is -- then
again, on the other side, they could have been praying to Allah and that part of
their life. Who knows?

HANNITY: We don't know.

(CROSSTALK)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Sean...

HANNITY: Could be domestic terrorism. All right, let me go to KNBC in Los
Angeles...

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Sean?

HANNITY: ... actually spoke to a witness, Jose Rocha who actually captured part
of the police chase and the gunfire when the two suspects were killed. Watch
this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (EXPLETIVE DELETED). Gunshots, (EXPLETIVE DELETED). Those are
gunshots!

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh, yes.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Those are gunshots!

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Holy (EXPLETIVE DELETED).

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh (EXPLETIVE DELETED)! What the (EXPLETIVE DELETED)?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Look, gunfire right now. Oh, damn! They got him right there.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: Really, really scary, and it reminds us, by the way, how law
enforcement puts their lives on the line every day for us.

What's your take on all of this from your perspective, Eric?

ERIC GUSTER, TRIAL ATTORNEY: From my perspective, I thought it was a hit or a
direct target that -- they went into a specific room, shot specific people, and
without blasting the entire campus of this corporation. Now, if they -- if the
LAPD and the FBI find booby traps, that would totally change my viewpoint of
this.

HANNITY: Eric, I got to interrupt you here. Apparently, we have some breaking
news from Adam Housley, who has information on the suspect's name. Adam, what
can you tell us?

HOUSLEY: Yes, Sean, a bunch of information. Just got off the phone with some law
enforcement sources. They're telling me several things. First of all, they now
believe that this is a two-person crime. They're dialing it back from a third
person. They're not saying that others aren't involved, but they say that with
the interviews that's been taking place and some of the early investigative
processes that they're thinking this may have been a two-person crime, and both
those people would be in that SUV.

I'm told that the SUV back there, while they've gotten closer to it and be able
to get some stuff out of it, it's not completely cleared. It's (INAUDIBLE) You
see the flashing lights.

Also, we're now being told -- we've been told a name, at least I have, for about
four hours. I know its been circulating at FOX and also other agencies that The
LA Times is now saying that they've got it confirmed. I know I have two law
enforcement sources saying the same thing, but The Times is the one that came
out and said it's Syed Farook and that he's an American citizen is one of the
names, S-Y-E-D or Syed, Farook.

The reason why this has been delicate, I was told by law enforcement when I
asked them about that name, was because I'm told both names are obviously not
your typical American name. Doesn't mean that it was a terrorist attack or
anything like that at all. But because it's a Middle Eastern name and the other
one is also, quote, a "weird" name, in the sense that it's not a common name,
that that's why they're being very delicate here.

Is this workplace violence? Is it terrorism? They want to make sure they get it
right. That's why they have been very delicate with us. Also that name, Syed
Farook or -- Syed Farook, had another name associated with it. As you know, a
lot of times, names that are immigrant names will have two or three other names.
Even in the Hispanic population, you'll have two or three last names, and it
makes things a little bit more difficult sometimes.

And so they were dealing with that also because they had a couple other names
associated with Syed -- S-Y-E-D -- Syed Farook. So that's why that was all
becoming a bit difficult for them to talk to us about, at the same time, for us
really to report, Sean.

The LA Times is now saying they have it confirmed, and I have two law
enforcement sources that said that that's the name that they are going with, as
well. So that again makes this a much more interesting situation. They've
dialled it back to two. They've given us a name -- well, The New York Daily
Times (sic) has given us a name, I should say. I'll hang it on them, and that
the other individual's name is again, quote, a "weird" name, meaning not normal
-- not a common name...

(CROSSTALK)

HANNITY: Have you heard that name? Is it similar sounding? I mean, it's very
difficult to glean anything exactly from a name. But they're saying it's
similar?

HOUSLEY: Yes, and that's part of the problem, Sean. Some of these names -- it
could be Armenian. It could be -- it could be, you know, Arabic. I mean, some of
those names are kind of right there on the fringe, and that's what this name is.

And so I'm not going to say it, obviously, because I'm not even close to having
that confirmed. But the first one, LA Times is confirming it. I know a couple of
the news agencies are confirming. When I mentioned to the law enforcement
sources that I've been speaking to, just hung up with, who told me they've
dialed it back to now two suspects, they believe, they confirmed it, as well.

That doesn't mean that there's not a bigger picture here, Sean. Doesn't mean
there are more suspects out there or other people they worked with. That part
they're taking very, very seriously. I'm still hearing helicopters periodically.
We'll hear sirens.

We know about the situation in Redlands, where our crew's been told to move
back. They're worried about problems there, and they're worried about problems
here down the street. And that will continue, I'm told, for some time because,
again, safety and security is number one for them, but also trying to preserve
as much evidence as they can as this investigation...

(CROSSTALK)

HANNITY: Well, Adam, I can add to this, by the way...

HOUSLEY: And obviously, a lot of concern here, Sean, a lot of concern. FBI came
out here very early on, and they came out here in a large force.

HANNITY: Adam, I just got this tweet. The Washington Times is tweeting out that
Syed Farook, San Bernardino shooting suspect, identified apparently by his
father, as reported by The Washington Times, as a devoutly religious Muslim. So
that now raises once again the possibility that this was...

HOUSLEY: And it raises it again.

HANNITY: ... a terror attack in the world that we're living in today.

HOUSLEY: And Sean, we've been told he worked nearby, and maybe at a medical
industry, some sort of technician or something. I didn't get the exact detail on
that because I wanted to get to you.

I do know that CAIR, obviously controversial Council on Islamic Relations, is
having a press conference in Anaheim about an hour from here with, they say, a
member of one of the suspect's family is going to be there. So that's going to
be interesting to see how that's painted or played out.

But obviously, this is evolving very quickly this evening, Sean, a lot of
concern, as you might imagine, amongst law enforcement about, are these two
folks that just acted alone? Are they people that were connected to other
people? Was it terrorism? Was it workplace violence? Obviously, this was
planned. I mean, they guaranteed that from the beginning...

(CROSSTALK)

HANNITY: Adam, you know, one of the things I didn't quite understand how
somebody -- if it was the workplace violence situation, and the police have left
that open as a possibility. We heard the FBI director. We heard others
tonight...

HOUSLEY: They have to, though.

HANNITY: They have to. Of course. And they didn't rule out terrorism and they
were very clear that there were certain things that indicated possibly it could
be. But what never made sense to me is the idea that somebody would leave a
party angry, go home, get somebody else, get dressed up in tactical gear and
have all those weapons all ready to go -- I wasn't sure if I believed that from
the beginning.

HOUSLEY: And that's what they're -- and that's one of the loose ends they have,
Sean. I mean, it wasn't do cut and dried. I mean, if this guy had a problem
there, and all of a sudden started shooting, it would make it a lot easier to
say workplace violence.

But you know, part of the problem, as well, is you have the situation of the
names, where they had a couple of different last names associated, or at least
they thought might be associated. You know, there was reports there were three
suspects. I mean, there were a lot of things they had. And of course, the number
one priority is to secure -- ensure security and safety.

And before the shootout happened, I mean, within 20 minutes of the shootout
happening here, before I was tipped off on my phone that there was a chase and
we bolted out here in our car, I was told by law enforcement that, You know
what? We're going on a theory we have three people, fully armored with, you
know, semiautomatic rifles, and looking to kill. And they had to go on that
premise.

Now it looks like there were two people obviously looking to kill because you
saw the video on your show.

HANNITY: Yes.

HOUSLEY: Right there, Sean, I mean, 150 yards away as an unmarked car leaves.
That's where the back window was shot out. Was it shot out by the police
officers or was it shot out by the individuals inside? We don't know, but it was
shot out. And then 100 yards past that, the first real barrage of gunfire. Then
about 150 yards past that is where it ended. And that's where those lights are
right now. And that's why they're still trying to deal with the SUV, and they
think there's a possible device still inside. They haven't been able to truly
get all the way inside...

HANNITY: The one thing I think we can...

(CROSSTALK)

HOUSLEY: ... evidence out. So you know, there's a lot of things going on here,
and safety and security being one, Sean, and then, of course, trying to figure
out the connections, if there any, to terrorism is number two.

HANNITY: Adam, the one thing that we can determine is when my FBI source out in
Los Angeles, which is the second largest bureau in the country, second to New
York, confirmed to me that it's all hands on deck. And it's all hands on deck
for all law enforcement.

HOUSLEY: Yes.

HANNITY: And the way, hours later, they're still treating that vehicle, and the
robotic device going into the home of one of the suspects that were killed, and
the slow release of the name and identity and ethnicity of the background -- I
don't think there's any doubt from an outsider's perspective that the FBI is
taking what they said very seriously, that this is a potential terrorist attack.

HOUSLEY: Absolutely. You know, I got an individual in the law enforcement
community in D.C. that has a lot of stuff on the counterterrorism side of things
and messaged me just now that the last name, if -- you know, that's being
reported by The LA Times, and by the father's being true, and I was told by law
enforcement, has an either Egyptian or eastern Libyan normally denomination.
That's where you generally find that last name.

As you know, it's tribal, so they're very easy to connect names or easier to
connect names in other parts of the world in some respects. And that's obviously
where that might go.

But we don't know, Sean. There's so much still to do here. The number one thing
again is security and safety. Then it's to see -- you know, and that includes
are there other people involved here? Did someone help them get the weapons? Are
there other people that were planning on doing? (sic) Is there a situation where
there's other people waiting? That's the situation that they have to ensure
first as they try to clear this scene and the one in Redlands.

And then, you know, as part of that, of course, they look at the terrorism
angle. But you know, safety and security is going to be number one always. And
you know that. And the FBI did come out here with a massive contingent.

As we were driving out, Sean, I mean, we -- we left the office within minutes,
and we were -- you know, surprisingly, there was no traffic in LA. That never
happens. And we're on our way out here on the 10 freeway, and we were, you know,
doing a pretty good clip, and here comes the FBI guys. I know their vehicles.
They come flying by me on the shoulder, on the inside, and they were -- you
know, they were moving. And...

HANNITY: Hey, Adam...

(CROSSTALK)

HOUSLEY: ... Whoa, this is...

HANNITY: I've got a little bit more...

HOUSLEY: That's a quick response by a large team.

HANNITY: I just told you what The Washington Times reported, that he was
devoutly religious, according to his father. Now The New York Daily News is
reporting that the father, whom they didn't name, confirmed in an interview that
his son inspected restaurants, hotels for health violations, and was married
with a child.

Now, from what I understand, at the Christmas party that was at the center, that
now that maybe gives you more indication that it could be some type of workplace
violence event.

DIETL: Well, I think it's...

HANNITY: Hang on, Adam. Stay right there.

HOUSLEY: And that's why...

DIETL: Sean, I think it's very important that we look at one thing. First, they
lived right nearby. Second, was what jumps out? Everyone said they had masks.
Why would they have masks? So they can't be identified. That means people in
that building knew who they were, and they had to put masks so they wouldn't be
identified.

HANNITY: Well, bank robbers would do it, too...

DIETL: My feelings are because his name is Egyptian, that's an Egyptian last
name, he could be a support of a Muslim --

HANNITY: Let me go back to the "New York Daily News." The father also identified
his son, Farook, as very, very religious. "He would go to work, come back, go to
pray, come back, he's Muslim." That's a quote, direct quote.

ERIC GUSTER, ATTORNEY: That doesn't indicate it's terrorism, though. And we
can't make that --

HANNITY: I'm not saying that.

GUSTER: When we look at domestic terrorism like Columbine --

HANNITY: Hang on. Adam? Jump in, Adam, go ahead.

ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Sorry, and that's a good point. And that's
what I think needs to be stressed here. We've got some people who have
criticized, or at least I've got a couple of messages on my phone saying how
come you're not coming out and calling it terrorism. That's exactly what we're
all discussing right here. There's a lot of variables here and there's a lot of
sensitivities here. And really right now for law enforcement, they could care
less about that. What they care about is ensuring that they get these people and
that situation cleared behind it and that there's no other immediate threats.
That's the number one priority right now.

HANNITY: I totally agree. We don't know. And we'll know more, but certainly the
FBI, and law enforcement, as a whole, are treating this as the worst possible
scenario that this could be an act of terror, and all hands on deck is an
indication of that.

I do have some numbers to share with our audience, Adam, if you stay right
there. When this whole Syrian refugee debate came up, remember, we learned there
were 1,000 ongoing probes of ISIS within America. We have a new study that
actually came out today. George Washington University shows U.S. authorities
have made 71 ISIS-related arrests since march of 2014, 56 of them, this year.
And 71 people have been arrested nationwide for the alleged connections to is,
13 people arrested in New York alone, 11 people in Minnesota alone. And all told
Americans now, according to the study, report, George Washington University, 250
Americans that tried to travel successfully to reach Syria or Iraq to join ISIS.

So when you add the thousand with the 250 in the country, you know, we should
not be surprised. This of course should be top of mind for law enforcement.
We're not making judgments, but it would be prudent and frankly, it would be
dereliction of duty not to, right?

MANNY GOMEZ, FORMER FBI SPECIAL AGENT: Agreed. And in fact the director of the
FBI, Comey, has said he reported to Congress that the FBI and local law
enforcement cannot cover all of these potential suspects. They have thousands of
people there.

HANNITY: That's scary, right?

GOMEZ: It is scary. When you have the top badge in the United States basically
telling Congress and the U.S., we can't cover them all. We don't have the
resources. So could this be somebody that fell through the cracks? Sure. But I
think the fact that we're even here discussing this situation on the heels of
what happened in Paris is very interesting indeed. And 20 years ago this would
have been just horrific murder and we wouldn't have this panel here. Today, on
the heels of Paris and other attacks, and let's face it, this is an epidemic
here in the U.S. --

HANNITY: Let me go back to the FBI spokesman. He said we will go where the
evidence takes us as it relates to terror. He was very, very clear about that.
And he mentioned a few potential things were out there that are making them stay
on that course as well as the workplace violence course.

GUSTER: Right. But workplace violence is what makes sense in this one, Sean.

HANNITY: I actually disagree with you.

GUSTER: A lot of people say, oh, they went home, it doesn't take long to go
home, get your guns, then come back.

HANNITY: But wait a minute, Eric, you're saying they went home, that they had
incident at the party. They went home. They put on tactical gear that was all
prepared and all laid out, that apparently might have been even booby-trapped
their house, and they might have had some type of explosive devices, hang on,
then they had loaded, long rifles, probably an AR, loaded pistols, then they
went back, and then they left, and then they still stayed in the neighborhood?

GUSTER: If the house is booby-trapped, absolutely not.

HANNITY: That might be a problem for your theory.

GUSTER: That would be. But as far as going home, getting your guns, putting your
clothes and coming back, that doesn't take time, because just like with me
coming to FOX News when there's breaking news, I can get from Brooklyn, I can be
working out, put on my suit, get here from Brooklyn --

HANNITY: You're superman. Let me go back to Mark Fuhrman. Mark, with all this
new information since I last spoke to you, and now the name that has been
released in this particular case, what do you make of the investigation in the
police resources going into this?

MARK FUHRMAN, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Well, Sean, you know, I've been listening,
quite intently on really an effort to be more delicate with a known suspect that
shot it out with the police and killed 14 people than we are the 14 people that
are dead. I think being delicate about possible terrorism in this country and
possible terrorists and people that don't belong here is exactly how we got
here. And whether this is terrorism or not, and whether they went to the party
and came back home and got all dressed up and then came back is almost
irrelevant. We know the two people that did. We know that they went there. We
know one is a Middle Eastern, of Middle Eastern descent, highly devout.

Whether he came back there or somebody else did just to make sure that certain
people were there, they targeted the location. It's an act of terrorism if they
never find a scrap of paper or computer entry or any kind of radicalization.
It's terrorism. It's terrorizing a community for no reason whatsoever. It's
terrorism.

HANNITY: Well said. All right, we have new information. We go back to Adam
Housley on the ground for us tonight. Adam, what's the new information?

HOUSLEY: Yes, Sean, I want to touch on what you said a second ago. I'm glad you
mentioned this, one of the problems law enforcement was having with the whole
making this workplace violence, and it still could be, is the situation that
they had the tactical gear. And that's what really throws a curve ball for them.

Off of that, one of our producers recently heard an interview with the neighbor,
a neighbor over there in Redlands who said that she was alarmed because the new
people that moved in next door had been receiving packages and a lot of package
deliveries and working late in the night in the garage. So it had her a bit
alarmed because that is not something that would normally take place there. So
obviously that is playing into this.

We also can't forget one more thing, Sean. There's 14 people that lost their
lives tonight. And as we look at the terrorism angle on this, the potential of
that happening, we have those families who've lost 14 loved ones, and also the
update from the hospital I just got that the medical center, Loma Linda
hospital, obviously very well-known for what they do in the medical field, five
total are there. Two are critical. So, as you know, tonight, as this
investigation goes forward and law enforcement trying to ensure the safety and
security of this community, there are families that have lost loved ones and
many others that are fighting for their life right now, Sean.

HANNITY: We can't forget them.

You know, I want to go back, go back to what the neighbor was saying. And, yes,
families are in thoughts and prayers, and it's unimaginable that believe 14
people died and their families are mourning tonight and 17 other people and
their families are praying for their safety and their survival. But let's go
back to the neighbor of Syed Farook and what they saw late at night and the
packages being delivered, and that made them suspicious. Would it go late into
the night? Were there multiple people in that garage? You know, some people
might go into the garage and tinker on their cars, but, maybe now knowing what
we know happened, you have to suspect maybe something was going on.

HOUSLEY: Yes. And I'll give you the exact quote what was said, it was being said
to a radio reporter, a local radio reporter, 1070, which is a radio station here
Los Angeles, respected --

HANNITY: KMX.

HOUSLEY: The quote was this, this is from the neighbor now -- yes, KX. This is
the quote, it said, "Three to four Middle Easterners had recently moved into the
apartment of interest," which is the one next door in Redlands in the past
couple of weeks. She was alarmed because they were getting a lot of package
deliveries and working late in the night in the garage. That came from the
neighbor next door.

Again, lends you to believe that there's something suspicious going on here. And
that's the one problem law enforcement's had from the beginning on this, Sean,
is you know, workplace violent, you don't generally see someone go back home,
get somebody else, mount up, so to speak, and put on tactical gear like that and
come back with that kind of weaponry. That just doesn't what usually happens,
I'm told by law enforcement, when you have workplace violence situations.

HANNITY: Yes. It doesn't make any sense.

HOUSLEY: It's a very delicate situation to put it lightly. It's one of several
reasons why.

HANNITY: You're talking about three to four Middle Eastern men in a place in the
garage late at night, they had just moved in, suspicions of the neighbor. Again,
this is an unfolding story. We can't jump to conclusions, but it certainly is
getting -- we're beginning to put the pieces of the puzzle together. Now, stay
right there, Adam, great reporting tonight. We'll get back to you in a second.

We just got unbelievable tape into FOX News. It's an interview on KTTV outside
of the suspect's home, in Redlands, California. It was interrupted by a large
bang. Listen to this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They're talking like it's possible terrorists attacks and
stuff. It's crazy. Oh, my gosh.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh, my god.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And now there's booms?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: All right, joining us now with the latest information about the
suspect's home that is being searched, you see the robotic device going into
that home, is our own Jonathan Hunt. Jonathan, were you there? Did you hear that
boom?

JONATHAN HUNT, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Our producer Dan Gallo was on the scene,
there, Sean. He heard that boom. It sounded to him like the controlled explosion
of something, something suspicious being carried out by law enforcement
personnel on the scene. He also was the one who shot that video of the robotic
machine heading towards the front door of that property.

Just going back to your discussion, Sean, on the theories that have been put
forward by the FBI, that terrorism may be one of them, workplace violence may be
another. Those two are not necessarily mutually exclusive. Let me put this to
you. You possibly have somebody who has planned to carry out some kind of terror
attack. That person is then at a gathering apparently with his colleagues,
because we now know this one person named was an environmental health inspector.
Health workers were holding this party where the shooting took place today. Say
that person feels that he is slighted at that gathering. Then he leaves. Then he
goes and gets his accomplice and he says, never mind what we were planning,
let's do this now.

So those two theories are not necessarily mutually exclusive. That is not to say
that is what happened. We do not know the details yet. We will be told them. We
will find them out via officials eventually. But those two theories, not
mutually exclusive, Sean.

HANNITY: I certainly can see and understand anything is a possibility at this
point. But the idea that somebody got angry, just happened to run home, get
another person, get their tactical gear, load their weapons and come back that
quickly is, to me is a little bit of a stretch.

HUNT: Sean, the point being, Sean, that that person could be thinking that,
could have --

HANNITY: It's 100 percent they were ready for an attack.

HUNT: All of that gear is ready to go.

HANNITY: Bo Dietl agrees with you too.

DIETL: I like that theory very much.

HANNITY: Let me ask this question. What do you know about the robotic device
going in? Now usually that is done in cases where the police believe, maybe they
were looking into the apartment building, but where they believe that there
might be some type of explosive device or some type of IED or some type of booby
trap. Do you believe that that was an actual trap that was set off, something
that was left behind to injure and hurt or kill police?

HUNT: Officials have not told us that at this the point, Sean. It is quite
possible that that was the case. But, clearly, they are on a very high alert
here. Clearly, they know that these two attackers who shot, that already shot
dead 14 people were heavily armed. Clearly, they were suspicious that they might
have some sort of booby trap in that property and in the vehicle where they had
that, remember, that intense shootout with the two suspects earlier. So the
police and other law enforcement who are on the scene there are obviously moving
with the utmost caution. And if they see any kind of package, any kind of item
that they are suspicious about, they're going to send in the robotic machinery
first. They're not going to take any risks with their own personnel, Sean.

HANNITY: All right, Jonathan, thank you, and stay there. We are getting some new
information that the group CAIR, the Council on Islamic Relations, you might
remember, they were unindicted co-conspiracies in that big Texas case. Anyway,
they will hold a press conference in about 45 minutes. It's expected that they
will have one of the family members, I assume of Syed Farook, considering that's
the only name made public at this time, which is also the father has been quoted
in the "New York Daily News" and the "Washington Times" as of tonight.

Let me turn to you, Bo Dietl. As you get all of this new information and you
hear what Jonathan is saying and you hear the package and that boom, what do you
think?

DIETL: I like his theory. They were possibly terrorists in the planning.
Something came down --

HANNITY: Set him off.

DIETL: Something was said to him, "you towelhead," excuse my expression,
something was said in the respect, it was negative. And he ran home, got his
accomplice and came back. He could have said something negative --

HANNITY: You're saying some type of epithet was used, racial epithet, and out of
anger that would have set off what was in the planning already.

DIETL: Exactly, in the planning already. That could sound very possible.

HANNITY: It's speculation. We really don't know. But I do see as this is
unfolding more and more, it's certainly apparent to me, and you know the FBI
tactics, it certainly appears that they are treating this as a terror attack.

GOMEZ: Agreed. It seems to me that if they knew that it wasn't, they would have
already put that out and quelled everybody's concerns.

HANNITY: Are they too cautious though? They knew the name for a long time. They
didn't release it. Are they too cautious? I heard this name hours ago tonight.
Are they too cautious, they won't give any description of those that are
deceased?

GOMEZ: They are being cautious.

HANNITY: What is the caution about, being PC?

GOMEZ: Right, totally.

HANNITY: So the FBI is PC?

GOMEZ: The FBI answers to a higher calling, and the truth of the matter is, this
could be a politically charged incident if it turns out to be an ISIS cell. And
they want to be absolutely sure --

HANNITY: But the FBI has been very clear. I have to give credit to these guys.
They have pointed out there's 1,000 probes ongoing right now in the United
States. That's why I have been so outspoken and passionate, if we know that a
certain percentage of Syrian refugees have ISIS sympathies and the national
director of intelligence, James Clapper, and James Comey, who everybody
respects, the FBI director and our assistant FBI director and the general in
charge of tactics that take out ISIS are all saying that ISIS will infiltrate
the Syrian refugee community, why would we risk the lives of Americans? Why
would we take a chance like that?

GOMEZ: On top of that, I believe that even beyond that, even if they don't
infiltrate, even if we're that good at being able to discern which is an ISIS
sympathizer and which isn't, we're basically importing the next wave of
potential sympathizers. They will be radicalized, statistically, a percentage of
them --

HANNITY: If that robot set off a bomb, all bets are off.

GOMEZ: That's 100 percent.

DIETL: We agree. The thing we're talking about, 10,000 FBI agents. When I was on
the police department many years ago, they used to deputize a lot New York City
cops and cops of Nassau County as U.S. marshals to support the FBI. They have
hundreds of thousands, well, 100,000 cops across this country that can be
deputized and work with the FBI and have their surveillance teams. They should
be utilizing all the police departments and start to get candidates in there to
be sworn in as U.S. marshals along with the FBI to support the FBI.

HANNITY: From the earliest moments, let me go back to Mark Fuhrman, my law
enforcement resources and my friends out in Los Angeles, they were telling me
from the get-go that all hand were on deck. They were telling me from the
get-go, everybody was on board. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, the
FBI, every law enforcement agent, everybody with a badge and a gun was called
into this situation, Mark.

FUHRMAN: Well, what they did is they established a tactical alert probably in
four or five of the southern California counties. And that means that everybody
comes to work. The lower levels have to maintain the patrol and the security of
the city, and all the upper echelon detectives and special tactical units end up
going to San Bernardino or other locations where they've indicated there might
be a threat.

And, you know, I'd like to try to understand why we have to be so sensitive with
known suspects, known names, known shootouts, known murderers. And this is the
problem. When you make political correctness ahead of justice, you're not going
to get justice.

HANNITY: Yes.

FUHRMAN: It's just not going to happen.

HANNITY: And listen, the name, I first heard the name Syed Farook hours ago
today. I heard it during my radio show which didn't end until four and a half
hours ago, that name was passed on to me. So they knew more, and it does raise a
very important question, why are they so slow and giving the public the
information and I guess they don't want people to rush to judgment in this case.

The group CAIR, which, by the way, is going to hold a press conference, release
a presser and say later tonight the greater Los Angeles office of the Council on
American Islamic Relations of Southern California will hold a press conference
with leaders of the Muslim community to condemn today's deadly shooting spree in
San Bernardino and to offer condolences to loved ones, which I can understand. I
don't think people blame all Muslims. I think there are people that blame
radical Islamists. And this is the distinction, and this president can't even
utter those words, Eric, not to get too political.

GUSTER: Some people cannot distinguish the difference. Some people -- but some
people just assume all Muslims are bad. That's why we have to be careful with
trying to put names out there and trying to lump all of them together.

HANNITY: Four or five hours to put out a name?

We'll take a break. We'll come back, and when we come back we'll have the latest
information out of San Bernardino. Not only are we awaiting the CAIR press
conference, we're also awaiting another press conference. HANNITY will go until
midnight tonight here on the FOX News Channel. We'll have full coverage of all
the events that are happening in San Bernardino and the investigation into who
was responsible for the killing of 14, injuring of 17 earlier today.

HANNITY: Welcome back to FOX News. This is a FOX News alert. And of course our
continuing coverage, 14 people killed, 17 injured earlier today. We go back to
Catherine Herridge. She has some new information for us. Catherine, what's new?

CATHERINE HERRIDGE, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Thank you, Sean.

A law enforcement source here in Washington D.C. is telling us that this name
Syed Farook is in play. They're describing it to us as a strong lead and a
possible suspect in the shooting. They're also saying that at this time based on
the evidence they do not believe that the female and male suspect who are have
been identified.

Now, earlier today we were given a longer version or what I would describe as a
variation of this name Syed Farook, and we were told at that time it had washed
out. A U.S. government official says it had been run against the databases and
they had no positive hits. But now it says it may well be one of the suspects in
this case, Sean.

HANNITY: I'm trying to understand exactly what you said there, because I thought
you said they were not identified, but yet the name was released.

HERRIDGE: What they're saying to me is that the bodies have not been identified.
They're saying that this name, Syed Farook is separate from those individuals.
That's how it's explained to me.

HANNITY: OK, understood. And we don't know the name of the female that was
killed in the shootout?

HERRIDGE: No. I don't have that.

HANNITY: OK, but we were told earlier, I think it was by Adam Housley, I
believe, that in fact that too, was not a regular-sounding name? Maybe I guess,
not John Smith.

HERRIDGE: I don't have any sort of visibility on the names of the two dead
suspects. What I do know is that Syed Farook is the name that's in play. It's
described as a strong lead and a possible suspect in the shooting, someone who
was involved. And then I was told the two dead suspects have not been identified
by name. So if you put that together it would not seem that name linked to those
suspects.

HANNITY: All right, appreciate it. Thank you, Catherine Herridge. Mark Fuhrman,
I understand during the break, you feel not releasing the name earlier when in
fact they knew the name was a big mistake because valuable time was lost?

FUHRMAN: Well, valuable time was lost. One you put the name out, you have
everybody listening. If this person was actually in our society and working and
living and going to school or whatever he was doing, then people would know him,
and then you could place him. You can find out his associates, where he was
going, and this investigation might have turned at least quicker in what they
found out and quite possibly might have got those two suspects before they
actually took off and ended up in a shootout with police.

HANNITY: In other words, they could have gotten more information from the
public. We were told during the press conference that in fact a tip did lead to
the discovery of these two people, Mark.

FUHRMAN: You know, I'm listening to Catherine Harris --

HANNITY: Herridge.

FUHRMAN: And two people in the car are deceased and haven't been identified, and
yet we have a named suspect. Is that the named suspect that was actually in the
conference that left the conference and these two people in the car? Or are the
people that actually went in and did the shooting? Do we have another suspect
that's loose? Do we have four people or is the suspect loose the named suspect?
I'm a little confused.

HANNITY: We did hear from Adam Housley and Jonathan earlier that they believe
this was a two-suspect crime. Now, they additionally, when they talk about a
third person that was caught running away and that has been detained, but we
have not been told officially, although we expect a press conference coming up
momentarily, we do expect that we will get more information when in fact that
happens, Bo.

DIETL: You know, we got some information there about the guy supposedly working
with the health department or something. The father said that he's married, he's
a devout Muslim and all that. Now, that would stand to reason if that's him, the
cops have him identified now. Through fingerprints he's got to be identified by
now. Now with the father saying that that is his son, is there a possibility
this in fact is his wife, the female? Where is the wife? He's supposedly
married.

HANNITY: Then, we go back too, Eric, according to Adam Housley, remember the
reports and Jonathan Hunt earlier talking about the one neighbor that was
worried about all of the packages being delivered to the house where we see that
robot going in live, and we have had heard the explosion, that late night
activity in the garage. Remember, these were two new people moving into the
neighborhood, lots of packages, lots of late night activity in the garage that
made the neighbors suspicious.

GUSTER: When you see something, say something. If they in fact were doing
something sinister, but you have to remember, when people are moving in, they're
going to get packages. When I moved first moved into Brooklyn, I was getting
packages every other day with furniture.

DIETL: Sure everybody gets assault rifles.

GUSTER: Nobody said there were assault rifles. You can't make that assumption,
Bo. You've got to be careful not to make that assumption.

DIETL: They shot 14 people.

GUSTER: The FBI not giving out information, they already had the mans' name.
They already knew where he lived.

HANNITY: Hang on. I think what Mark is saying is a very valid point. In other
words if in fact it was a public tip that led to the discovery of these two
people, I think he makes a point if they knew the name earlier they could have
gotten more public assistance. But as we've been talking about all night
tonight, there is a level of political correctness, a fear, they don't want to
jump the gun. We in the news media, we don't want to make a mistakes either and
jump the gun. So it's a fine line, a razor's edge.

GUSTER: Sometimes the FBI and police department don't want to release all of the
information because they may alert someone else that they knew who these people
are, they may be searching and on their trail. They have to be careful with what
they release, especially if they already know who it is.

HANNITY: Yes. Well, we're going to watch it continue and monitor, and we'll have
the very latest on the San Bernardino shooting and of course the investigation
and all the latest details as the next hour of HANNITY starts right here, right
now.

HANNITY: And this is a Fox News Alert. And we are waiting a press conference
from law enforcement about the latest developments into the investigation into
the deadly San Bernardino shooting that killed 14 and injured 17. The L.A.
Times, the A.P. have identified one of the suspects as Syed Farook and the FBI
will not rule out terrorism as a possible motive.

Our own Adam Housley is on the ground live in California tonight as he's been
all night with the very latest. Adam?

ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: Sean, here is why this has been so
difficult for law enforcement. I want to give you an account of what I was given
about maybe five minutes ago or so that it was given to me from someone very
close to this case saying that, "I don't think they went to a gathering, got
into the fight, went home afterwards and dressed in tactical clothing, grabbed a
pipe bomb, grabbed AR-15, and then headed back for revenge. That's just too much
for us to believe right now. It simply has to be -- there has to be a lot of
planning involved. Several people agreeing on conducting this type of attack,
plain and simple, this does not seem spontaneous."

So, that's clearly obvious to those of us not in law enforcement so that's one
reason why law enforcement has this difficult situation and why they are looking
and will not rule out the possibility of terrorism. And that is why they were
also being very delicate with names.

Now, I know Catherine has reported that the name -- they're working with the
name Syed Farook. I can tell you one reason why they were holding that name back
is because there have been a couple of other names associated. We know that
people of Middle Eastern descent sometimes will have two or three names
associated with their name more or so than you'll find maybe a common name
that's been Americanized for some time.

I do want to show you this behind me as well, Sean. In the last 5 to 10 minutes
or so, the two scientific teams came out. If you look down to this you'll see a
draw back now, which leads me to believe -- I know they've gotten in the part of
the SUV, leads me to believe that they're in the SUV. I have not got that
confirmed from anybody there but the fact that the scientific teams came out,
investigative teams, and that you're seeing a much less. You don't see the
police presence that we'd seen even as long as 5 to 10 minutes ago, or I should
say as recent as 5 to 10 minutes ago. And the battle to the battering ram
anymore as well. It looks like that they have gotten into that vehicle and
gotten at least the information they were looking for.

As I said before, earlier in some of our reports, they had seen some stuff
inside. They felt would help with the investigation, what that is, a purse, is
it a wallet? I mean you don't know obviously because they're not going to tell
you that. But they did say there were some stuff in there and they weren't
willing to go in and try and get it because they felt there might be a device
inside.

We have not heard any sort of device or explosion here. You can see the grainy
video down there that there are still investigative teams on site of course. We,
unlike our producer who is out in the Redlands location, we haven't heard any
sort of detonation of any type. Interestingly, that video that shows the
detonation out in Redlands had it explained to me, they're telling me it wasn't
a, what did they call, Lance (?)?

LANCE (?): Disruptor.

HOUSELY: A disruptor, it's a disruptor. So basically what it's meant to do is it
shoots out a water projectile at the end of a shotgun. That's what you see there
on that robot and that's meant to disrupt the possible device. So...

HANNITY: Adam, (inaudible) would that make that kind of boom noise, what they
describing?

HOUSELY: Potentially yes. He told me if there was a detonation it would take out
the front of the house.

HANNITY: All right, hang on Bo Dietl...

HOUSELY: Yes.

BO DIETL, FORMER NYPD DETECTIVE: Yes. It's a trip charge that shoots out in this
way if there was something there that would explode.

HANNITY: All right. So in other words it might not have been a device.

DIETL: Yes. And...

HANNITY: All right, but hang on. Let Adam finish his report. We'll going to get
to you in a second.

DIETL: Yes.

HOUSELY: That's exactly right. Well, and that's what he was trying to make sure
that we understood that if it was going to be a detonation that it would take
out a significant part of that location, the front of it at least.

So, had there been other devices found there, we don't know for sure. Obviously,
our producer heard a boom there. But Sean, again, this stuff is fluid. It's
changing as we know, the names, as we talked about.

The comment that I got from someone very close to this case about, you know, you
just don't do go back and do a spontaneous attack with this type of preparation
grabbing weapons like that and grabbing a pipe bomb and grabbing, you know,
tactical gear like that. So, that's why they're not willing to rule out
terrorism but of course they have to be delicate with other possibilities here.

I mean there's always the chance this could be something else. However, remote
that might be. And as yo mentioned Sean, we in the news media can only report
what we know and it's what we're doing now.

I will tell you that again, they still tell me their number one priority is to
secure this area and ensure there's no other threats. And as we know, there is a
chance there could be other people connected to this especially with the
neighbor reported on the radio saying she saw three or four people that moved
into that house in Redlands. So right now we know of two.

HANNITY: Yeah.

HOUSELY: In fact, law enforcement says they don't believe there were three
people now at that shooting earlier today that killed 14 people. They believe
there were two and that those two people are dead down the street, Sean.

HANNITY: Yeah. Are you getting report as I am? As I mentioned earlier, the name
Syed Farook I'd gotten very early in the day and we weren't able to report it
until this hour. Are you getting names on the woman that was shot, the suspect
shot and that that shootout with police? Because I am.

HOUSELY: Yeah, yeah. I am too like Syed Farook name. The problem that we had
with that name also, Sean, is obviously we want to make sure you get it right.
You don't want to put a wrong name out there. But also there were some other
names associated with it. You know, some other names that might have been
aliases or, you know, other names from -- other tribal names potentially.

So the problem they were having, one reason why they didn't want to really go
with it yet is they wanted to get into that vehicle. They wanted to make sure
that they had wallet, purse, registration, whatever might be in there. They
wanted to really see what was in there to get as much information to ensure they
got the names right. They had, you know, I told you that one investigator seeing
pictures, cellphone pictures taken from the suspects on the weather, on the way
out here so they already knew what they were going to--

HANNITY: Adam, let me go back to one of the other party, you know.

HOUSELY: Yeah.

HANNITY: In one sense these people were very, very well-prepared. If they wanted
to make their escape, they would have been able to make the mistake. A couple of
things they would have done is they would have gotten out of the black SUV, the
Yukon and they would have gotten in another vehicle, and they would have gotten
out of town. They could have been to Vegas by now. And yet, they also stayed
together. So it tells me that they had something else in mind, something else
planned. As law enforcement, are they thinking the same way on that?

HOUSELY: Yes and no. Here is why -- and why I say yes and no is this. You have
two things here. You have a situation where they're like, "Holy smokes, we've
done this", and they panicked and hunkered down some place. Or, do they plan on
trying to take out more law enforcement with them?

I mean, you know, if it is a terrorism situation, Sean, if, I want to make sure
that's a big if there, you know, did they want to go down the hail of gun fire
taking law -- more people law enforcement with them. I mean, it's a martyr type
situation. You know, do they really think they were going to get away? I mean
they had to know that they're going to be very quickly, law, that's what the FBI
presence here so quickly as well, that very quickly law enforcement was going to
have an idea who they were.

HANNITY: All right, yeah.

HOUSELY: And even though you can jump on a freeway here where we're located and
be on the 10 freeway, and be some place three or four hours away, you're still
not going to truly be able to hide out. And I think that especially if he names
are Middle Eastern names especially if they do have a distinct look, and
especially if they didn't have another vehicle in place.

I mean if they're planning on -- if this is terror, if it is, and they're
planning on being martyrs, you know, they don't need a second vehicle.

HANNITY: Yeah. But they did escape, and they did stay in the area, and they did
stay together, and they didn't change vehicles even though they were so
well-prepared in other areas of the attack. One last question, if you can just
confirm because there were so many reports about potential IEDs, pipe bombs that
might have been thrown out of the window, can you confirm or deny that those
reports because the latest was they might not have been pipe bombs or not.

HOUSELY: I was told by the law enforcement, again, and you got to remember also
these crime scenes even though they're close, they still met different crime
scenes. You got the shootout here which is a pretty large crime scene. You got
the search that went on earlier, it looks like there might be someone that
wasn't involved. You have the murder location which is a mile and a half from
here. You have the Redlands location which is five miles past here. So you've
got a, you know, you have you a lot of law enforcement. You have a lot of
investigation going on.

So you have investigators in different areas that are talking as much as they
can, also from different agencies.

So what I've been told is that there was at least one pipe bomb. That's what the
theory is, always have the report (ph) as of right now, was that here was it
thrown out a window, was it found in the Redlands location, was it in that SUV?
I don't know. And it may not be the case. But I'm told as of ten minutes ago
when I got that text that that is what they believe, that there was one pipe
bomb grabbed along with AR rifles and the tactical gear.

HANNITY: All right, Adam Housley, thanks for staying with us up so late tonight.
And when we comeback, we'll have more live coverage of the investigation of the
deadly San Bernardino shooting.

Now, we are awaiting a press conference from law enforcement. They'll have the
very latest. We'll continue, Mark Furman, Eric Guster, Bo Dietl and much, much
more, straight ahead.

HANNITY: And this is Fox News Alert. And we are awaiting a press conference from
law enforcement on their investigation of the California shooting that has
killed 14, injured 17 earlier today in San Bernardino. The L.A. times, the A.P.
have identified one of the shooting suspects as Syed Farook. The FBI said
terrorism is a possibility in today's attack.

Live in the ground in California at the Redlands apartment location is our own
Jonathan Hunt. This is where we heard that boom earlier. We're expecting the
press conference coming up as well.

Jonathan, we are told that it could have been a trip charge not necessarily some
type of IED or booby trap.

JONATHAN HUNT, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Yeah. We have no indication that it was
any kind of booby trap. But so far what we saw happening in our producer on the
ground there shot video I'm showing (ph), which I believe you have there, was a
tactical robot as its called moving towards the front of that property.

Now, that tactical robot gives law enforcement a remote view from a distance. If
they see something then that concerns them, they can fire a water shot at it.
That could produce the kind of boom or detonation that Dan Gallo and others on
the scene heard. They could also, of course, being firing a small device to
break down the door, to open any locks on that door before they make entry
themselves. So they're moving with extreme caution and that is obviously
understandable when you are dealing with suspects who have already shot 14
people dead here in San Bernardino.

Suspects who then engaged in an extremely fierce gun battle with law enforcement
officers as they tried to flee in that SUV.

Now, two suspects as we now know, a man and a woman were shot dead by police
officers in that SUV. There was a third person detained. We do not believe at
this point that there is any evidence linking him directly to the shootings but
obviously the focus now on that property in Redlands where a neighbor said 3 to
4 Middle Eastern men had moved in. And that neighbor was concerned that there
were a lot of packages being delivered to that property and the people in that
property were working late in the garage.

None of that necessarily means anything but clearly it concerned that neighbor.
And clearly, if those concerns are concrete in any way shape or form. It is
understandable that law enforcement now are taking every single precaution
before they move into that property itself to gather any evidence they possibly
can, Sean.

HANNITY: All right Jonathan, thank you so much.

And we bring back our panel former LAPD Detective Mark Furhman, former NYPD
Detective Bo Dietl and Trial Attorney, Political Commentator Eric Guster.

Let's stay on this point. If the neighbor, Bo, see suspicious behavior and as
Jonathan just reported three to four Middle Eastern men, two people were shot
here, one was a woman. Don't you think FBI and Law enforcement is going to want
to know who the other three men are?

DIETL: Well let me tell you and mark (inaudible), when you got a case of this
magnitude and the last case I had was 10 dead. Right now, they have a lot more
information we're getting right now. They're developing this to want to see who
else is in concert with this. They want to see every aspect. And then like
getting up to this news thing, and telling you everything they have. I got one
great thought about this. This FBI director called me. This guy is the real
deal. If this is terrorist related I will guarantee he will label as a terrorist
attack. And we have to wait until the investigation is totally done with.

HANNITY: Mark Furhman, you can see if there were three to four this neighbor's
report is right. In fact all these packages are being sent to this new location,
their new neighbors. They just moved in. Late night activity in their garage and
it turns out one of these people involved in the shooting. I would think the
first order of business or at least one of the top three. Find the other three
men that were in the garage late at night involved and find out what the
activity was in going on in that garage.

MARK FURHMAN, FORMER LAPD DETECTIVE: Absolutely. And I would have the question,
did the neighbor call the local law enforcement? And is there any record of the
call that went in that these guys are doing something suspicious late at night?

And when I say suspicious, it means that other people on the neighborhood aren't
engaged in the same activity. No different than a drug dealing, drug house where
you have a constant flow of people coming to the door staying for 30 seconds and
leaving. So that's the first thing.

But she was being delicate if she didn't call because she didn't want to call
because they're Middle Easterners and she didn't want to seem like she was
targeting them as terrorists. And you see this every time we have an incident
like this, regardless of any race, or sex, or religion. There's always somebody
that knew something that didn't call it in.

HANNITY: Yeah.

FURHMAN: But, yes. They want to find out everybody was there. And I think where
they got the names first, you run utility checks because you're going to prepare
search warrants. You get utility checks, phone records and you have names that
pop up on there that are paying bills. It might be where they got the names and
they might have wanted to verify with the bodies that those people are one and
the same.

HANNITY: All right. We're awaiting a police press conference as you can see on
the other side of your screen.

Now, Fox has obtained new compelling tape that shows what was going on inside
the Inland Regional Center when this attack took place earlier today. You're
going to see a cop being as heroic as you'll ever see, watch this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You're not cool and I'm not walking out there (ph).
(Inaudible) keep your hands where I can see them. All those that are these, you
know I got a weapon and try to relax. Thank you, thank you. Try to relax.
Everyone, try to relax. I'll take the bullet before you, that's for damn sure,
just be cool, OK?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: I'll take a bullet before you. That's for damn sure. Bo, you know, I
know there's a lot of criticism but here we see the video that cop in Chicago,
you're on the program last week. I'll take a bullet before you, that's for damn
sure. That's what this guy do for a living.

DIETL: Well, that's the majority of police officers there out there. They
protect the people of this country and that's the epitome of what the cops are
all about. You've got a couple of bad guys that taint, it you can't paint with
one brush all the policeman across this country.

HANNITY: You know, let's go back to the other video. We showed this in the last
hour. There was a gentleman, in KABC Channel 7 in Los Angeles picked up this
video. He was actually following when the shoot out took place where the two
suspects were killed. Watch this video.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Gunshots. Those are gunshots.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh yeah.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Those are gunshots. What the (inaudible). And look at there
is gunfire right now. Oh, damn. They got him right there.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: This is roadster (ph) who saw that and took some of that video. They
also reported hearing hundreds of shots going off as the police had a
confrontation with the two suspects that eventually died, that died on the scene
there, all right.

We got to take a quick break. When we comeback, we are awaiting a press
conference for law enforcement on this very, on the very latest in the
investigation into this deadly San Bernardino, California shooting. 14 dead, 17
injured. We'll have the very latest right here on the Fox News Channel.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DAVID BOWDICH, FBI ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: I know one of the big questions that will
come up repeatedly is, is this terrorism? And I am still not willing to say that
we know that for sure. We are definitely making some movements that it is a
possibility. We are making some adjustments to our investigation. It is a
possibility but we don't know that yet. And we're not willing to go down that
road yet.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: All right, that was earlier tonight at the press conference where the
FBI Assistant Director In-Charge of the L.A. office David Bowdich saying they
cannot rule out terror. And we are waiting the next press conference on the
ground tonight in Redlands, California with the very latest about this presser
that we're awaiting is Jonathan Hunt.

Jonathan, what are we expecting? And what time do we expect this presser?

HUNT: Well, we've been told they'll give us an update at the top of every hour.
So by that metric, we should be just about 35 minutes away from an update which
we'll include. We are told the San Bernardino Police Department, once again, and
officials with the FBI. Now, obviously, the questions they are going to be asked
straight off the top of this, Sean, and the updates that we're all waiting for
is something on the suspects, a second ID And we have this first suspect IDed
(ph) by many in the media. And the name being confirmed is being in play by our
own Chief Intelligence Correspondent Catherine Herridge, that name being Syed
Farook.

Now, obviously, what we will want to hear and hopefully the FBI can give us is
more information on that person. We want to know if he is indeed the one who is
directly tied to the address that is now being searched by law enforcement
personnel in Redlands. That's about five miles from where the initial shooting
incident took place. There is a large law enforcement presence up there right
now.

Our own Dan Gallo has been shooting the video that you have seen of the tactical
robot making an approach to that property, are recording the sound as well of
that detonation that we heard which we believe was the tactical robot firing
what is known as a water shot at something that law enforcement personnel on the
ground felt was a suspicious device. All of that we hope will be explained to us
by the FBI when they address us again.

And then, obviously, the questions will be motive. We know that this gentleman
by the name of Syed Farook was employed as an Environmental Health Inspector
here in San Bernardino County. We also know that it was a Holiday Party, a
Christmas Party for health workers that was being held at the Regional Center
here where the shooting took place.

How does that all fit together? Was that always the target for the attack that
was carried out? Had that been planned to attack these people attending a
Holiday Party? Or, did something happen in a confrontation somehow inside that
party and one of the suspect, one of the dead suspects left, got an accomplice,
went back there saying that we did had a plan but let's carry out what we were
going to do right now.

We simply do not know the answers to those questions at the moment. We hope that
the FBI will be able to give us some of those answers when they next talk to us.
We hope that will be within the next 30 minutes.

HANNITY: All right. Jonathan, quick followup to your last report where you
mentioned this neighbor found it suspicious that these people moved in next
door, and all these packages were coming and late night activity going on. That
she would say three to four Middle Eastern men. I've got to believe because it
was one man, one woman, Syed Farook and this woman whose name has not been
released. I've got to believe that the FBI wants to talk to the other three
people that were seen by this woman, this neighbor in the house working in the
garage late at night.

HUNT: You would imagine they are tracking down everybody there they can find,
who is connected to that property and who is connected to this name of the
suspect put out there, Syed Farook.

HANNITY: Hey, Jonathan, hang on one second.

HUNT: So they're obviously they will be doing their due diligence right now.
Yes, Sean.

HANNITY: Jonathan, we're going to swing back to Adam Housley because apparently
Adam has new information about this very topic.

Adam, what do you know?

HOUSLEY: Yes. Got the phone with investigators telling me that they have made
entry into that home in Redlands. They do -- has spoken with the neighbors who
said there were three or four individuals working on late in evening as I
reported last hour. And what they're telling me is, they are working on that the
theory obviously that there more and more people are at that location.

They also trying to figure out if that house was actually Syed Farook's location
or was it a cousin, was it a friend, is that why there are more people there?
And literally is I just hung up with them. Said that there inside, they're
hoping to find out more details once they're inside but they are working on the
information given to them by the neighbor, which we reported here about though
half an hour ago, Sean, that there were men working late in the evening and
receiving unnatural number of packages. And that's what there -- they are taking
that very seriously, Sean, as you could imagine.

HANNITY: And by the way, Adam, just so people know. This is where the tactical
robot that we now see on the other side of the screen. This is where it went in.
They also did a trip charge which resulted in the boom that Adam -- I'm sorry,
Jonathan Hunt also reported tonight.

So, I would imagine that they're going to be digging deep into who these men
are. What these packages where, where they were coming from and I'm sure we'll
be tracing via the post office, the UPS or FedEx or whatever.

HOUSLEY: Yes, absolutely. And then, back to that boom we're talking about
earlier, that water charge that comes out the end of that shotgun basically. I'm
told that that boom can -- that water charge makes that sound. So, it doesn't
mean that they detonated anything because it just means that they took something
out, so to speak.

But they took them a while to get into Redlands Home, just like it took them a
while to get into the SUV here as more unmarked cars coming here are going to
come by here in a second, still a lot of activity through these things.

And we're talking about three crime scenes. Yes, they are, you know, over a mile
and a half from the murders. The Redlands Home was five miles beyond that. But
you're talking about three very delicate crime scenes, Sean. And there's -- and
of course a lot of agencies here, state local and federal. So there's a lot to
go through. Then, you have the name situation and a lot of the other information
has been coming in. So I think it's obviously and they were very excited that
they were in the Redlands home when I spoke. We spoke with them.

HANNITY: All right. It's going to be a very enlightening press conference. Thank
you so much Adam Housely. We'll get back to Adam as the night unfolds here.

When we comeback, we are waiting as you can see on your screen a police press
conference on the deadly San Bernardino, California Shooting. 14 dead today, 17
injured.

Stay with the Fox News Channel for the very latest on the investigation.

HANNITY: And this is a Fox News Alert and we are awaiting a press conference, a
police press conference into the very latest on the investigation into the
deadly San Bernardino, California shooting. Jonathan Hunt is live on the ground
in California with the name now of the second suspect. Jonathan?

JONATHAN HUNT, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Sean, Rick Sorrano who is a
well-respected reporter with the L.A. Times just reporting that he has been told
by, directly by San Bernardino Police that the name of another suspect in this
incident is (inaudible) Ardogan, I believe, it would be pronounce A-R-D-O-G-A-N
and according to the reporting of the L.A. Times that person is a 28-year-old
citizen of the Middle East in the nation of Qatar.

So that goes with the other name that is being put out there, Syed Farook who we
understand from the reporting of our own Catherine Herridge is a U.S. citizen.
But now, San Bernardino Police according to their reporting of the L.A. Times
are naming a 28-year-old Qatary citizen as another suspect in this incident,
Sean.

HANNITY: All right, Jonathan, thank so you much.

Joining us now from Washington, from the American Islamic Forum for Democracy,
our friend Dr. Zuhdi Jasser.

Dr. Jasser, I know CAIR is going to hold the press conference. We are hearing,
again, the Washington Times, The New York Daily News reporting that Syed
Farook's father has spoken out. He was a developed Muslim.

Now, you hear that this woman is a 28-year-old citizen of Qatar. In everybody's
mind and the sheer volume of law enforcement and FBI resources being thrown into
this case leads one to think this now may very well be a terrorist attack. That
means now, people are going to look at names, people are going to look at the
location. If in fact this woman from Qatar and they're going to say is this
radical Islam? Your thoughts.

ZUHDI JASSER, AMERICAN ISLAMIC FORUM FOR DEMOCRACY: Well, Sean, our hearts and
prayers are with the families and I just, you know, I just get tongue tied
thinking about how many more of these do we need before American-Muslims stand
up and say, "We have a problem. We need an intervention."

I mean, I know we're still trying to get the facts and, you know, but
organizations are already putting out press releases saying that this is just
some psychiatric issue or doesn't represent. Well, listen.

HANNITY: No, they don't know that.

JASSER: If we want to -- I know exactly.

HANNITY: We can't make a definite statement that it is terror but, again, we're
trying to get to the bottom of this.

JASSER: Yeah.

HANNITY: And we have the report, I find it very interesting what the neighbor
was saying, people up late at night, a lot of packages going to the homes. I
don't know if it's connected to the Christmas Party, where this fight that took
place, they seemed prepared for some type of attack.

They didn't leave the area, they could have gotten away. They could have changed
vehicles. They could have separated. That tells me that maybe they are willing
to go down in this battle.

But I think a lot of questions are going to be raised especially in light of the
question that is now before the American people and the president's insistence
against the advice of his director of National Intelligence and as FBI director,
and is assisted FBI director. Another intelligence official that he still wants
to bring in Syrian refugees even though law enforcement telling us that ISIS
might infiltrate the refugee population. I got to assume that a 28-year-old
citizen from Qatar is going to, you know, reignite that debate. No?

JASSER: Well, it's going to reignite the debate but also reignite the fact that
we're at war and ISIS is infiltrating the viral minds through ideology and that
this is a home grown. It sounds that these two did it as part of an ISIS
operation.

By the way, it is seeming more like terror when you have more than one
individual and it's an operation that they did. And they're looking at softer
and softer targets because they want -- this is the power of a synchronize
warfare.

They want to make America, I mean, we're already seeing some tweets online,
Sean, that say America burning and they're trying to. ISIS is whether they did
it or not starting to take credit for it because their social media is about
trying to destroy our society from within so that the freedom, the appeal of
America is no longer. There so, the Sunnis can start going back to Syria and
they can rip us apart.

HANNITY: And I mentioned this later, I'm sorry, earlier. As we were debating the
issue of Syrian refugees what do we learned? We learned that there are 1,000
plus FBI probes into ISIS sympathizers in this country.

Now, new statistics came out today from George Washington University. What did
they report? 71 people in America have been arrested nationwide for alleged
connections to ISIS. 13 of them from New York, 11 from Minnesota and around 250
Americans have tried to travel or successfully reach Syria or Iraq to join ISIS.

So the FBI is telling us ISIS is here. The national director of intelligence is
saying that, "Yeah, ISIS is likely to infiltrate the Syrian refugee community.
The FBI director saying we can't possibly bet them all in the right way".

Are we too open with people that come from societies where there are huge
cultural divide with our constitution and our belief in liberty, those that may
live under Sharia law?

JASSER: Well, Sean, as long as the conversation doesn't include a vetting of
political Islam. I mean the reason I'm in Washington right now is we have a
summit of reform minded Muslims that is coming together.

We planned this from months ago and the sad thing is that there's an attack
every few weeks now because we're doing nothing to vet against the ideology of
political Islam which is a political ideology of what Islamic state supremacism
over western freedom ideology and.

HANNITY: But there is a class of cultures, Zuhdi. There is a definitive class of
cultures. This is just a fact. If you grow up under Sharia law where women can't
drive, four male eye witnesses needed for rape. They can't be seen in public
without a male relative all of the stringent requirements for dress for women
and treatment of women and minorities, et cetera. If you grow up in that
culture, it is the antithesis of what our constitutional right provides every
citizen in America. Do we have to take in that conflict when we allow people
from Qatar or those societies to come into America?

JASSER: Because the bigger part of this battle is that conveyor belt (ph) that's
radicalizing hundreds of millions of 1.6 billion in the planet. If we are going
-- you're going to surrender to that ideology if you close the walls and say,
"America isn't about freedom and liberty". If you want to take side not against
all Islam but within the house of this...

HANNITY: But how do you -- here's the question. How do you ascertain? How do you
get into the minds and hearts of the 10,000 Syrian refugees were told that 15 --
13 percent to 15 percent according to surveys sympathize with ISIS? How do you
get into minds and hearts of those people and ascertain who comes here with pure
intentions for a better life for them and their family, and who wants to kill
us? And why should Americans take the risk? And why is the president willing to
gamble with the lives of Americans?

JASSER: Sean, you're right. I mean, as my family in Syria they know who is
coming from the north of ISIS areas that are jihadists versus those that want
freedom. I mean, the refugees, the vast majority of them are keeping Assad not
necessarily ISIS. And the bottom line is, is that there is an internal battle
going on which is not just about Islamism versus freedom but it also is about
Assad and dictatorship so America to be on the side of good needs to embrace
those Muslims.

Just like the cold war, we embraced Russians and Vietnamese and others that
wanted freedom and yet we realized that within them was an ideological enemy
that we didn't want to bring on board. The problem is nobody in our government
wants to engage reformists to help us vet them and...

HANNITY: And Zuhdi, I appreciate everything you're saying and I know where your
heart is, and I have been critical that there are not more Muslims like yourself
that speak out against the hijacking of Islam and you're right. But the numbers
of radical sympathizers are way too high and the voices of moderates like
yourself are -- well, there are some. There is not enough but I got to run. I
don't mean to cut you off, my friend.

JASSER: Thank you.

HANNITY: All right. We are awaiting a press conference by the police on the
latest on today's shooting in San Bernardino, California. 14 dead, 17 injured.
We'll have the latest here as we continue on Fox News Channel.

HANNITY: And welcome back to Fox, this is a Fox News Alert. We are awaiting a
police press conference into the investigation of the deadly San Bernardino,
California shooting. Just moments ago, loud bangs were heard at the Inland
Regional Center. That's where police were reportedly dealing with possible
explosive devices.

As you might remember that's where the initial attack took place earlier today.
Live on the ground with the latest information from California is our own Adam
Housley. Adam?

ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Sean. We've been told out with those
loud bangs were the third of three devices that have now been disrupted so to
speak just at that location alone. So with that, we've been talking about the
location here where the shooting happen which is one mile away, we were talking
about the house in Redlands, there more than 14 people were murdered and the
others were injured.

They have found three devices that they believe could have been pipe bombs. They
won't confirm officially that yet but they have destroyed three devices there.
The third one just happened, Sean, and what they're told obviously, there's --
as you can tell, still going through that scene. So these are still three very
-- well, two very active crime scenes and a third one is a potential crime scene
in Redland, Sean.

So this investigation as we've been talking about all night going into a lot of
directions. There are a lot of things that they're looking into and they are
still having a deal with the possibility of pipe bombs and other things that
threaten their security and safety as they go forward with the investigation,
Sean.

HANNITY: All right. So we're really looking at three different areas. The
Redlands Home which we have been talking about with Jonathan, we have the
shooting area where the two suspects were killed and they've been showing great
care all throughout the night although I think they pulled back in last half
hour or so and of course the Inland Regional Center where the initial shooting
took place. Those are the three areas and they're still at all three, correct?

HOUSLEY: Correct. And what surprised me a bit is I didn't realize -- we known
that they'd found at one suspicious device, let's call it that, at the center
which is a mile and a half from where I'm at, where I started today. And we
don't that they found two more so that's three. And so that tells us obviously
that still very active there as well.

We know that the Office of Investigation was going to be going on there but we
didn't realize it was still that type of investigation where they were still
dealing with suspicious devices over there and we're talking about hours after
that murder, all those murders took place.

As you mentioned, it has dial back here a bit. I can step back and show that
they're still obviously the truck or the SUV is still down there. There are
lights. There are still teams down there obviously. They have main entry into
the SUV and as I reported about 20 minutes ago, they were excited to finally get
into the home in Redlands where they're hoping to find more investigative, you
know, more leads so to speak or things that might help them in this case, Sean.

As you know, as talk about there is a massive contingent law enforcement here
from all over and the FBI is quietly leading this entire thing.

HANNITY: All right. Adam, thank you so much for that report and all your hard
work tonight and your great reporting, we all appreciate it. Thank you so much.

Now, coming up, police scheduled to hold a presser on the very latest into the
investigation into this shooting, 14 dead, 17 injured. Stay with the Fox News
Channel.

HANNITY: And this is the Fox News Alert. This is our continuing coverage of the
shooting in Riverside, California, San Bernardino, California. And the group
care, the -- is holding a press conference. Apparently, they have one of the
family members, I assume of Syed Farook who has been identified as one of the
suspects that was killed earlier by police and let's go to this presser and just
dip in and check it.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Offering our, you know, solidarity and our remorse for
everything that's been ongoing as well as some leaders from our Muslim community
and a relative of the suspect. So I would like to introduce first our CAIR
Executive Director, Hussam Ayloush.

HUSSAM AYLOUSH, CAIR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: Thank you. Good evening everyone. My
name is Hussam Ayloush. It's H-U-S-S-A-M as in Mary, last name is Ayloush,
A-Y-L-O-U-S-H and I'm the Executive Director of the CAIR, the Council on
American Islamic Relations for the greater Los Angeles area.

On behalf of the American Muslim community and especially the Southern
California Muslim community, on behalf of CAIR, the Council on American Islamic
Relations, we unequivocally condemn the horrific acts that happened today. And
we stand in solidarity with fellow Americans as we offer our condolences, our
heartfelt prayers and condolences to the injured, to the families of those who
have been killed.

We stand in solidarity in (inaudible) any possible ideology or mindset that
could have led to such horrific act. There is absolutely nothing that could
justify and we stand in mourning and sadness for what happened. And we pray for
the quick recovery of those who are injured. Thank you very much.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you Hussam. Next, I would like to invite the
Religious Director of the Islamic Society of Orange County, Dr. Muzammil
Siddiqi.

MUZAMMIL SIDDIQI, RELIGIOUS DIRECTOR OF ISLAMIC SOCIETY IN ORANGE COUNTY: Good
evening, my name is Muzammil Siddiqi. I'm the Religious Director of the Islamic
Society of Orange County and the Chairman of the Shura Council of the Southern
California. Shura Council represent most of the mosques of Southern California
from Santa Barbara to San Diego.

On behalf of our communities, I want to express our sadness and sorrow on this
tragedy that happened in San Bernardino, our hearts go to the victims and their
families and the people who are injured.

We pray to God to bless them and to give comfort to the people who are in
difficulty at this time. We are with them. We're in solidarity with them. And
also, I want to condemn this action. This action of violence, it is horrible
violence we have condemned all violence, everywhere because human life is
precious and we respect and honor the human life.

We would like to see that our law enforcement will take full investigation and
find out more details (ph) and the people behind that. And they will -- they
should be brought to justice. That is what we expect and we hope it will happen.
And at the same time, I would urge everyone to please do not implicate Islam or
Muslims because what -- whosoever had done that, our faith has nothing to do
with that. Our faith is against this kind of behavior. Thank you.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you Dr. Siddiqi. Next, I would like to bring up the.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Could you spell his name?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh, can you spell your name sir?

SIDDIQI: Muzammil Siddiqi, M-U-Z-A-M-M-I-L, Siddiqi, S-I-D-D-I-Q-I.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you. Next, we would like to bring up the brother
in-law of the suspect, Farhan Khan to give a few remarks.

FARHAN KHAN, BROTHER-IN-LAW OF THE SUSPECT: My name is Farhan it's F- A-R-H-A-N.
My last name is Khan, K-H-A-N. And I just cannot express it how sad I am for,
you know, what happened today. I mean, my condolences to, you know, the people
who lost their life.

I am very sad that, you know, people lost their lives and there are victims out
there. I wish, and speak to them and again, I am in shock. That something like
this could happen. That's all I have. I hope everybody understands and, you
know, everybody get recover much faster, whatever the victims are there. Thanks.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: When was the last time you talk to Syed?

KHAN: I mean, I spoke to - about like a week ago with him. Yeah.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Was there anything that he's religious person?

KHAN: You know, there's no comment. I mean, investigation is going on. You would
know what it is. I have no idea. I have no idea why would he do that? Why would
he do something like this? I have absolutely no idea. I am in shock myself.

AYLOUSH: I had a chance to speak with Mr. Khan before and he truly doesn't feel
he is informed enough or anyone is informed enough to comment because we don't
know the motives. Is it work, rage related? Is it mental illness? Is it extreme
ideology?

At this point, it's really unknown to us and it's too soon for us to speculate
and he feels comfortable sticking to his -- he chose to be here to share his
family's feelings, sadness and sorrow as all Americans are tonight and today.

So let's keep it that way for the time being until more information is available
and he promised to be as available as necessary as more information is
available. So thank you for respecting his choice at this point.

(CROSSTALK)

(OFF-MIC)

AYLOUSH: I ask and truly he feels at this point he'd rather stick to that
comment just for the interest of the investigation to be fair, we really want to
get to the bottom of it.

We don't want to undermine the efforts of law enforcement at this point by
making any comment that could mislead the investigators or law enforcement that
will be a great disservice done to the victims and their families. So let's
respect that for the time being and we appreciate that from your end.

(CROSSTALK)

(OFF-MIC)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Is it base on your religion?

KHAN: At this point I don't want to say anything.

AYLOUSH: He doesn't been informed. He doesn't know has been shot.

KHAN: The reason I'm here is, you know, I just wanted to say that I am actually
is -- the reason I'm here is, you know, is to talk to the victims and to express
my family how sad they are of what happened, drastically. I mean, you know,
that's why I'm here. I mean, don't ask me how, what he is, what he was doing,
how he is? I mean, I don't want to get into all of this. Please.

(Off-Mic)

KHAN: Sorry?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Did the rest of the family ask you to come to be the
spokesperson?

KHAN: Yes.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do they children together?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: If it's OK, at this point, I will request if we can just
hold off on those questions after the conference. I really appreciate it. Next
we will have Reverend Sarah.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120201cb.253

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               30 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                           December 2, 2015 Wednesday

                       SHOW: THE KELLY FILE 12:00 AM EST

More Coverage of San Bernardino Shootings

BYLINE: Megyn Kelly, Catherine Herridge, Adam Housely, Dan Gallo, Mark Fuhrman

GUESTS: Brad Thor, Michael Balboni

SECTION: NEWS; International

LENGTH: 8817  words


MEGYN KELLY, THE KELLY FILE HOST: Breaking tonight we are going to continue to
monitor that press conference but at the moment we're expecting a different news
conference out of California during which we believe we will learn more from the
authorities about the suspects, a possible motive and clarification from the FBI
on whether an attack that left 14 people dead is or is not in fact the product
of terror.

Welcome to a live midnight edition of "The Kelly File" everyone. I'm Megyn
Kelly. First, we want to get you up to speed with events over the past few
hours. We want to be careful about what we report.

So here is what we know. Fox News has learned that had a man named Syed Farook
is being considered as a possible suspect in the shooting. We are also hearing
reports that another suspect has been named by law enforcement. Tayyeep Bin
Ardogan, a 28-year-old Qatari citizen. This is not confirmed by Fox News yet but
it is being attributed to the police in San Bernardino, California. We'll hear
more when they come to the microphones in moments.

Now, this comes just hours after law enforcement revealed that two suspects, a
man and a woman were killed in an earlier shootout with the cops. As of this
moment, it is unclear if the people killed are the same people who have been
named. The dead suspects were tracked down in a neighborhood not far from the
crime scene. Police say tips sent them to that neighborhood.

As they were setting up to watch a home, a vehicle was spotted leaving the
scene, an SUV. Look at this. A chase ensued part of which was caught on our
exclusive video here. When it was all over, the two suspects were dead. And a
third person was taken into custody.

Right now, it is unclear whether that third person is actually involved in this
crime. Meantime, the bomb squad was brought in to the home that police were
scouting out. Including a tactical robot, amid fears that the home could be
booby trapped. And we're hearing that they have now entered that home. Adam
Housley has the very latest live from San Bernardino. Adam?

ADAM HOUSELY, FOX NEWS SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, Megyn, you know, you
mentioned about the third suspect. We have been told by law enforcement in the
last hour they've dialed that individual back and believe the shooting that
killed 14 and injured so many others was done by two individuals that are still
on scene here, dead back behind me, about a quarter mile down the road.

We were moved out of course because of the threat of what might be inside of the
SUV. It's been quite a day and night here San Bernardino to put it lightly. In
fact, in the last half an hour, there was a third detonation or a third device
destroyed over at the original shooting location. So that means that there have
been basically devices or suspicious devices found in all three of the locations
you mentioned.

Let me give you a quick idea of what we're talking about. The initial shooting
took place from there to here where the shootout was, is only about a mile and a
half at the most and then the Redlands location about five miles on the other
side. So we're not talking about a very spread out area but still, three
distinct locations where investigations are continuing and intense
investigations.

It's dialed back a little bit here in this incident. They got in the SUV after
several hours and taking enough time and being very tedious because of, they
want us to preserve evidence but also the same time and secure the situation and
assure safety for themselves.

The same situation is happening over at the -- where the 14 people were murdered
and I was told about 25 minutes ago, I think it was 25, 30 minutes ago that they
finally made entry into the home in Redlands which they were anxious to get into
to see what they can find.

They talked to neighbors who felt that there was suspicious activity going on
late into the evening. As you know, Megyn, when we talked to you last, we've all
known these names for sometime. And the reason why we were being -- didn't get a
chance to tell you this -- but the reason we're being a bit careful was because
the problems law enforcement was having with one name in particular, Syed Farook
there are other names identified with that. And because there are multiple names
in some cases with people from this part of the world, you've got to make sure
to get it right.

And they wanted to make sure they had that right and they also wanted to make
sure on a couple of other instances about the possibility of work place
violence, that kind of thing. But as one investigator told me tonight the
problem they have with tieing it to work place violence, and they're not willing
to call it anything yet is that the fact that these people went back, they got
tactical gear, they got high powered weapons, they got at least one pipe bomb
according to my investigative source, and then they returned to do damage and
murder these people.

And as they said to me and several investigators has said to me, that is not
spontaneous. And that's where they're having a lot problems here. Also, you got
the delicate nature involved and you also have a situation that you know the
ultimate bosses in this are back in Washington. That has to be taken into
account.

So there's a lot of different pressures here, Megyn, with the number one
priority being safety and security to the community. I mean are there other
people tide out there? Is this a lone wolf type of an attack? Is this terrorism?
I mean there's a lot of question need to be answered with the number one
priority being securing evidence, securing the scenes, and securing the safety,
Megyn.

KELLY: All right. Adam, so as of this moment then, they continue to investigate
the inside of the house connected to one of the suspects. And what is the status
of the scene with the SUV because we still have the aerial of that which we're
looking at a short time ago.

HOUSELY: Yeah, in fact, I'll step away. Kind of see of the distance that this
area was full of cars earlier. In fact, we want to show that video again that we
obtained of the actual shootout. It really began not far from I'm standing. The
fact that the glass -- I would try to show you but it's probably 50 feet from
where I'm standing which where they blew up the back window.

Remember right by the parking side over here, that is where the shootout began,
and it carried on about a quarter mile down the street where it came to rest.
There are three different locations. The initial one by the parking sign, then,
they shot up a bit more about 100 yards away and 150 yards past that, it ended
and where bodies were left and where it took several hours to get in. I'm told
they got into the SUV maybe an hour or so ago. But as you can see there is still
a crime scene there. And there is still, as you mentioned Megyn, two other
locations being investigated at this hour.

KELLY: Adam, we're going to come back to you. Stand by. Thanks for the great
reporting tonight.

HOUSELY: All right.

KELLY: Joining me now, Michael Balboni, who's a former New York State Homeland
Security director and senior fellow at Homeland Security Policy Institute.
Michael, can you think of a thing this can be other than terror given everything
we have learned over the past couple of hours?

MICHAEL BALBONI, HOMELAND SECURITY POLICY INSTITUTE SENIOR FELLOW: Obviously,
you got to let the investigation take you where it leads you. You can't presume
where you're going to be but there are many elements given the recency of the
Paris attacks, given the way they did it as Adam just said, they went back, they
got tactical gear, they got weapons, they went back and what it looks like right
now, people would say why would you attack a facility like this?

And what is key to this is that the point of terrorism is to terrorize. So if
there is an opportunity that they knew this facility, they knew there would be a
lot of people there, and perhaps that's what they did. They said this is an
opportunity to have a mass casualty event in a place nobody would expect. And
therefore to be able to spread the fear that they can reach anywhere in the
United States.

KELLY: And how -- and if this is Islamic terrorism, and you've got Fareed
Sahook's (ph) family -- forgive me on the name -- you have his family coming out
and speaking directly through care there. You know, his brother-in-law
expressing his shock and his condolences to the victims. They're not saying it's
not this guy.

So if in fact it is what it appears to be, does this look to you like the lone
wolf type situations similar to what we saw with the Tsarnaevs in Boston
although they may have been influenced but not necessarily controlled by
radicals overseas?

BALBONI: So what you don't see yet is this type of thing you had in Paris where
you actually had cells that did preoperational surveillance. There is no
information yet. That may emerge but at this point in time. You don't have that.

So what you may have is an individual who is self-radicalized, inspired but not
instructed. But of course what you're going to be doing now is looking at all
the travel records. Where this individuals -- where did they go? Who did they
talk to? What type of websites did they visit? Did they learn how to make a
bomb, a pipe bomb? Now, what are the inputs they've had in order to prepare for
this. Remember, you notice that anyone -- in anybody you have to practice to be
able to pick up a weapon and go shoot someone. It's not something that comes
naturally to anybody.

So there must have been practice. Where did they do this? How did they get the
weapons? These are all going to be the questions that they're focusing on right
now.

KELLY: And what do you make of the fact the police now, the FBI delayed it's
presser. Now here we are just after midnight, Eastern Time. We'll continuing to
await the next update which is supposed to take place about an hour ago. What do
you think is going on here?

BALBONI: I think what they're trying to do is they're trying to get all of the
information they can to make sure that they're really accurate. You know, there
is a lot of pressure here obviously. Everybody wants to know what does this
mean? Is interest a threat to the community?

But at the same time, i's an active investigation. And you don't want to tip off
perhaps associates, affiliates of the group out there with information that
could empower them maybe to escape or plan something else. So it's kind of this
delicate fine line. And as you again, you know, better than anybody else that
when reports at an active scene like this it may not be accurate. You've got to
make sure that you've you have that accurate information.

KELLY: Let me put this to you. If this home that they're in does in fact belong
to one or both of the perpetrators involved in this crime it may be one thing
for folks to communicate under the radar and, you know, get away with it. But
with law enforcement in the house with access to devices which may potentially
be in there, might this be a treasure trove of information for them?

BALBONI: Without a doubt. Obviously, you know, fingerprints can be picked up
from various devices. The way that the devices.

KELLY: But they went back there, Michael.

BALBONI: Yeah.

KELLY: The way it looks right now is the people who perpetrated this crime
committed it and then went back.

BALBONI: Yeah.

KELLY: . went back to the home.

BALBONI: Which means that they were really calm. I mean they had almost
professional -- an attitude about this which again says that these folks are
really focused on the actions that they were doing. They coordinated with each
other. So this is -- to say that this was just a work place violence, that's
kind of a hard thing to imagine at this point in time that that's the motive.

KELLY: I mean everyone is keeping an open mind but obviously as the evening goes
on and we get more information.

BALBONI: Yeah.

KELLY: You know, it's starting to be clear. Michael, good to see you.

BALBONI: Good to see you too.

KELLY: Fox news producer Dan Gallo is at the scene in Redlands, California where
police are investigating a home as I mentioned connected to the shooting. He
joins us now by phone. All right, Dan is that -- we've seen them explode or I
don't know what they've done. We've heard three explosions. Adam Housley was
expressing the idea earlier that that may not have been an explosion. It may
have been something on their sort of robot that just makes that sound. Here is
the video you took of the robot going in to the home. What's the latest there?

DAN GALLO, FOX NEWS FIELD PRODUCER: We'll in the last few minutes we really
started to see law enforcement clear out from in front of the house. I would say
I got here probably two and a half hours ago. And I would say the situation here
was a lot more tensed in fact they moved us back at one point. They said for our
own safety shortly after we saw the robot go in. Maybe 15 minutes we heard what
I thought sounded like a controlled detonation. That may or may not be the case.
I'm not an expert on this stuff.

There is ATF, FBI and a local police here. I talked to a local police officer
who really didn't have a lot of information on what they are looking for but he
did say well they weren't evacuating people in this area, he'd advise residents
to leave in this specific neighborhood.

KELLY: Wow, is the robot out?

GALLO: Yes. So in the last few minutes they actually took the robot out across
the street and so that and what we really began to see here in the last 10, 15
minutes is law enforcement leaving this area so.

KELLY: Have you seen them removing items from the house?

GALLO: We haven't. But then again we're about -- I'd say three, 400 yards away.
It starts. All we have pretty much is street lights. So I'm not going to say
they haven't but I haven't seen it.

KELLY: Have you heard it all or seen the neighbors, Dan?

GALLO: We spoke with one woman who spoke a little bit generally about the
neighborhood but didn't offer a whole lot in the way of specifics about this
specific home or this specific resident of this home.

KELLY: What she say about the neighborhood?

GALLO: Frankly she said, she was a Donald Trump supporter and mentioned a lot of
things about Muslims in this neighborhood. I don't know what to make of it. She
said she saw people wearing turbans and that sort of thing. I am just telling
you what she said. I don't know what to make of that.

KELLY: And what kind of a neighborhood is it? Is it a middle class type of
neighborhood or what, how would you describe it?

GALLO: I'd say it's an apartment kind of community. I mean there's a lot of
apartment that lie in the street here, you know, somebody who lives in the
apartment complexes. This is like an area that I would consider living in. So I
wouldn't -- I would say it's kind of middle class for people at are looking for
an apartment complex.

KELLY: But this is a stand alone home where the suspect -- it's either his house
or somebody related to him? Their house?

GALLO: I was told by neighbors that this was actually a condo complex with two
or three units in it. And I believe the police actually confirmed that.

KELLY: What can you tell us about this report that one neighbor reportedly saw
two to three Middle Eastern men in the garage, receiving packages, working late
into the evenings. Unconfirmed by Fox? All of which we have need to check in
that.

GALLO: Yeah, that. I truly don't know anything about that. It could have been
the same lady I spoke with and, you know, I don't know. That's hearsay for me.

KELLY: She did not tell you that?

GALLO: She did not mention it.

KELLY: Dan, thank you.

GALLO: Absolutely.

KELLY: Joining me now with more is Mark Fuhrman, former LAPD homicide detective
and a Fox News contributor. Mark, you know, so you -- the canvas gets a few
brush strokes on it over the course of the day and here we are, midnight, just
past on Thursday. And it's becoming more clear.

MARK FUHRMAN, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: It is becoming more clear and I think it's
going in a direction that I think that certain people would not want it to go.
And I want to say something, we keep hearing people making in disclaimers it is
not yet terrorism. Why don't we just call it what we see so far or why don't
they state what they see?

They can't make it work place violence because they could already do that and
would be easy. Does either person is deceased that were the shooters? Do they
work there? Do they know any of the people that were in the conference room? Do
they work in the building? If they don't it's not workplace violence.

And I think this is the difficulty that they're trying to find a motive instead
of looking exactly what they have. They have all these evidence and it's all
pointing to possibly self radicalized terrorism, terrorism. It doesn't matter
how you put it. It is not a lone wolf attack. You have a conspiracy of two
people at least two people, that conspire, prepare, load up, killed people, have
explosive devices. They had a plan. And they executed it.

KELLY: Yes this is been in the works.

FUHRMAN: I don't know how much more terrorism?

KELLY: . for some time, right. I mean this is not somebody who went home.

FUHRMAN: Absolutely.

KELLY: . like we saw in the Oklahoma Case with the man beheaded a woman and try
to behead another he got ticked off, he went out, he grabbed the butcher knife.
He came back and he did the deed. These guys have been planning this for days or
weeks or perhaps longer.

FUHRMAN: Absolutely. And Megyn, you're an attorney. You know that intent and
premeditation can form in a matter of seconds. Just because somebody walks out
of a building and goes to the trunk of a car and takes a shotgun out and goes
back in. That's premeditation but it's certainly kind of a knee jerk reaction to
being enraged or angry.

This is something where somebody had to collect weapons, collect ammunition,
tactical vest. They have to get a mask for their face, gloves for their hands.
They had to make improvised explosives devices. This is not something you just
go home and pick up and then go back to a location. I think it's almost silly to
say that.

KELLY: Here's the question I have for you. That the two people who have been
killed, the suspects who have been killed are a man and a woman who were in that
SUV. The reports from the shooting scene where 14 people were murdered and 17
people were wounded. Were that two or three men they said were men were there
shooting.

And, you know, we've been talking a lot about female Jihadis over the past
couple of weeks since Paris, since that one woman was in the apartment that got
exploded in Paris and the days after that attack. And the rules we've been told
are that the women are allowed to participate in Jihad but they don't normally
-- they're not as aggressive normally unless it's in the home.

Anyway, the point, what I had to ask you Mark is what -- if it's two or three
men shooting up the facility and you've got a man and a woman dead tonight, why
would they be begging officers for a third suspect? Wouldn't there be reason to
believe there is another suspect? He's at large right now because none of the
reports were that somebody with the mask on their face sounded or appeared to be
a woman.

FUHRMAN Well, Megyn, law enforcement is telling us about 1/10 of what they know.
They're telling us what they think you are going to find out by talking to
witnesses or what they think you're going to see and put together. They're not
going to tell you what they know. They're working on leads. I suspect that
they're working on dozens of people that they have actually connected to these
two people as associates, friends, coworkers, people they knew in their host
country or their birth country or this country. Places they live before.

They're actually widening this net to try to include as many people as they can.
They're not telling us a small percentage of what they're doing. This is a huge
investigation and it's probably bigger -- much bigger than we see right now.

KELLY: Just want to update you because we've been monitoring this CAIR press
conference the Council in American Islamic Relations which in an extraordinary
move prevented the brother-in-law of the named suspect, Syed Farook. Who came
out and said he's devastated by this and didn't want to say much more but
apparently CAIR just said at that press conference that the suspect, Syed Farook
and his wife are both missing. They said they're missing and they have been
missing since this morning.

So the police have not yet confirmed officially that that's the pair who was
killed in the SUV but another bit of color to this story, Mark tonight.

FURHMAN: Well, Megyn, let's fast forward a little bit. The male suspect is a
United States citizen. He had to submit to a print card to actually become a
United State citizen. They took his prints. They have his prints. They know who
he is and they know who the body is. As far as the female, I wouldn't know
because they haven't identified her by name. But they know that. That's
something for sure. I saw the press conference that CAIR gave. They're
apologizing for his actions and they're connecting to the Islamic community
telling people not to blame them for the actions of this one man.

So, they already know it's terrorist related or at least it's Islamic radical
Jihadism related but somehow we're slow to actually say this, I guess we're
being delicate. We want -- we don't want to offend terrorists, we don't want to
offend ISIS. I don't know what it is but we have 14 dead people, they're the
American citizens and they have more rights than the two suspects that are
laying face down in an SUV in a pool of their own blood.

KELLY: So sync we put. Mark, thank you.

FUHRMAN: Thank you.

KELLY: All right as I mentioned a moment ago and as Mark just noted, right
before we begin the hour. The counsel on American Islamic relations of care had
a news conference complete with the brother-in-law of one of the dead suspects.
He told reporters he was there to express his condolences for the victims but
would not say much about the man now identified as one of the attackers. Here's
just a little of that.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: When is the last time you spoke to Syed?

FARHAN KHAN, SYED FAROOK'S BROTHER-IN-LAW: I mean, I spoke to about like a week
ago with him. Yeah.

UNIDENTIFED FEMALE: Are you saying you just spoke to him?

KHAN: You know, there is no comment, I mean, investigation is going on, you
would know what it is. I have no idea, I have no idea why would he do that. Why
would he do something like this? I have absolutely no idea, I'm in shock myself.
A normal person.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Brad Thor was a best selling author and former member of the Homeland
Security Department's Analytic Reb Cell Unit. Brad, good to see you.

BRAD THOR, FMR MEMBER, DHS ANALYTIC RED CELL UNIT: Good to see you ma'am.

KELLY: And reportedly, The Daily Beast is reporting tonight that the suspect's
father has also spoken out saying he was estranged from Syed Farook because he
and the mother divorced and apparently Syed was with the mother than he was with
the father. And the father described him as a very religious person.

THOR: So I'm worried about this, Megyn. Doesn't that bother you that the father
said he was an extremely religious person? But when a question was put directly
to his brother, his brother says, "I don't know"?

KELLY: His brother-in-law.

THOR: His brother-in-law. He talked to him a week ago, but come on, his
brother-in-law doesn't know if his -- if this family member, even if his
in-laws, extremely religious? I have never seen CAIR jump into action this fast
before.

KELLY: Neither have I.

THOR: This is spin, this is damage control. And I'll tell you, that the
American-Muslim community does not need a group like CAIR representing them.
This is like a pedophile sending Nambla out to speak for him. CAIR has a very
bad organization with a lot of bad ties to terrorism. These guys,
American-Muslims, the first thing they need to do with this country is cut ties
with CAIR.

KELLY: They've been designated as a terrorist organization, I believe...

THOR: The only thing in foundation trial.

KELLY: Right. But they were unindicted co-conspirators in that trial.

THOR: Co-conspirators, I'm sorry. You're right.

KELLY: But they've been designated a terror organization, I think by the UAE.
Hold o, we're getting breaking new from our own Adam Housely. Stand by, I want
to be right back to you, Brad. Adam, what do you know?

HOUSELY: Yeah, Megyn, I've been told by a law enforcement sources that, you
know, we've heard about originally at early on that there was a, some sort of
fight or disagreement. And then the suspect left the location and came back. I'm
now being told that they're working on a different premise, that -- with these
investigations going on, they're interviewing all of the witnesses and those who
were injured there. That they're going on the premise potentially that that
heat, there wasn't an argument. If there was any kind of disagreement it was
because he was there to case the location, to see if it was a soft enough
target. That's kind of where they're starting to go.

Again, this has to -- investigation is going to go on for sometime, but I think
that's a pretty significant development in the sense that as they get through
these interviews with the suspects they're starting to get a picture. And the
picture that, unfortunately, may be unfolding is that this individual went to
that location to see if it was a soft target to case the location and then came
back. Megyn.

KELLY: Wait, so that this person didn't work there? I just clear, I apologize
Adam, so this -- some folks are not here. So that he didn't work there?

ADAM: No, no, no that -- I'm not saying that. No. I'm saying that he came, for
whatever reason, he went into that location, the meeting or whatever it was, you
know, he been told several things, the job fare, I mean, whatever it was that he
would do was basically, he was casing the location. He went in to see if there
was security or if there was something, you know if he was going to be an easy
hit. That's one of the theories they're now working on.

KELLY: Adam, thank you. I want to tell our viewers as well that we told you
earlier, the L.A. Times was reporting that the San Bernardino Police had given
them second name. The L.A. Times have been -- that police have gone on the
record giving them a second name of a suspect and that now they are pulling that
report back saying that the San Bernardino Police are clarifying that second
name did not come from them. And that is not yet confirmed, that they believe
that may have been a hoax, they say. So we only know one name and it is, as I
mentioned Syed Farook. And that is the one that we heard the members of CAIR
speaking about moments ago.

Brad, so, he went there to case the operation. He did -- he was -- he did work
there and as I say -- as I said they're more permanent appears that he and his
wife, that's how it appears, were the people in the SUV. So if this is the case,
and these are the only two suspects we're looking at which is what the cops are
saying. That's what Adam reported at the top of the show that now they've
disregarded the thought of this third suspect. And they say these two who were
killed in the SUV are the ones who did it.

Then you had a -- you have a woman in there shooting up this work place along
with her, you know, but it looks like it maybe her husband, we haven't confirmed
it specifically.

THOR: Yeah, you know one of the things that Mark Fuhrman brought up that I
thought was very important is, you just don't pick up a rifle and start
shooting. This takes training. Where did they get this training? And what I want
to know is, who is driving and who was shooting in that shootout with the cops?
Because if it was the woman, that's going to tell you a lot about this operation
and the amount of training that went into it.

KELLY: That's a good point. What we were told earlier was that you can see the
one person, sort of, out of the SUV and that you can see another person slumped
back in the car. But we weren't given their positions in the car. Nonetheless, I
mean, how sophisticated do you expect they were? I mean, how difficult do you
think it's going to be for law enforcement to get to the bottom of how this was
planned? With whom it was planned? How long? And so on.

THOR: Megyn, this is the thing. We always have this hindsight 20/20. How
difficult was it to get box cutters on the airplanes on September 11th? It's
this simple targets, they go after these soft targets, we keep hearing soft
targets, soft target, soft target. OK. One of the things with Al- Qaeda, is
Al-Qaeda sympathizers, repeatedly get busted by the FBI because they go on the
internet, they try to have somebody help them build a bomb, all these kind of
stuff. We saw that with the Dave Matthew's concert, attempted bombing that we
got yield in Chicago.

Well, thank God it was an FBI agent online that this Al-Qaeda sympathizer link
up with. ISIS is telling people, think globally, taken this whole radical
Islamic caliphate ideology but act locally. So at San Bernardino...

KELLY: They just said that, I mean, that was almost word for word with the
directive was after Paris.

THOR: Absolutely. There's a reason why they're pushing these people into these
very heavily encrypted chat rooms with different applications so that the FBI
can't crack them, the CIA can't crack them and other allied intelligence
agencies can't get in to see what they're talking about. But this is what ISIS
wants. Because if they can do it in San Bernardino, they can do it in Cupertino,
do they can do in Naples, Florida, they can do it in Arlington Heights,
Illinois, it doesn't matter.

This is what terror is all about. And I'll tell you, I don't know what it's
going to take in this country. Are we going to need to see this happen in a
school, someplace else? Its soft targets, soft targets, soft target. That's what
these guys want and they're going to be successful unless we dial it up.

KELLY: What -- but how? I mean, it's one thing to say that terrorist are making
games over in Syria. We should bomb them more or we should send them more
special forces, it's quite another to say, how? How were they to be detected?
Specific, I'm not saying, it can be done, but how? More FBI agents? More
NSA-type programs? What is it?

THOR: Well, I'll tell you. I read a great article and I believe with Charles
Cook in a row, who wrote the article that said, you know what, American lives
are important. And maybe what we need to do in this country is to say, for 12
months we are suspending all visas of people from Muslim nations until we find
the people from those nations that have overstayed their visas here.

Now, is that zirconium (ph), is it crazy, is it going to hurt Muslim business
people? Absolutely. But if you get a businessman in Jeddah or in Jordan that
looks at his radical nephew and say, "You know what I'm losing money. I can't
run my business in America because I've been frozen out, because it's you and
the idiots at your radical mosque.

Megyn, you and me, Mark Fuhrman, Ralph Peters, we cannot reform Islam. It could
only come from within the Islam and it can only come from us turning up the heat
on them to force them to reform. And that's the kind of stuff we need to be
looking at.

KELLY: That is one tall order, Brad, you know, I mean, it's -- you want to find
more immediate things that we can do. I mean, this guy is a U.S. citizen. He's a
U.S. citizen, he's not, you know, somebody who came in with Syrian. So the
question is, how would you detect this? I mean, I assume we already monitor some
of these radical Jihadi websites. And we have, with the FBI have the -- and we
have our eye on, you know, the traffic is all there.

THOR: In all 50 states. There's investigations in all 50 states now for ISIS
sympathizers. The problem is, you know, and again, we can bomb the heck out of
them and should be bombing them more and we should be sending in special forces,
but it's the ideology. Because we can bomb them, we're still going to get more
of them. You knocked down two, two more pop up on the way.

We have to combat the ideology and that's the one piece of this puzzle, this
multi prong approach that the United States is not doing. We are not looking at
our Muslim partners around the world saying, "Guys, you've got to change this."

This reform has.

KELLY: We have said that. We have, president Obama has said that.

THOR: He won't even say radical Islamic terrorism, Megyn. We are so politically
correct that we will not look at the Muslim population around the world and say,
"Guys, this is your problem, OK? We are not going to let another American
citizen be killed by a Muslim jihadist. We're not going to do it. So, the
pressure's on you guys."

And I think, instead of you and me standing in longer lines at the airports and
having our civil liberties eroded by all the phone call metadata being pulled in
and all the kind of stuff. We should be focusing there.

Let's preserve civil liberties here while we put effort where it needs to be,
which is on Muslim countries. Force them to reform their religion. That
Christianity has gone through reformation. Judaism has gone through reformation.
Islam has not. It's the same religion it's always been.

KELLY: You know, we have not yet had it confirmed by the FBI that this is
terror. Still, so far officially, they're saying it's a possibility. And, but
now as we learn.

THOR: This is a public relations disaster, Megyn, for the White House, for
Barack Obama, he doesn't want owe call it that. So the FBI.

KELLY: Well, they're trying to be careful as the night is unfolding. And the
FBI's going to have another press or any moment now. And hopefully we'll get
some more clarity on it. They want to be careful. That's to be respected. But at
a minimum, Brad, we are seeing how vulnerable we are in the country. As you
mentioned, these soft targets.

And it underscores what we've heard from so many guests. Former FBI guys who
were saying, we need more resources if you want us to keep the country safe.

THOR: Absolutely. The FBI is overworked. I'm surprised that we haven't seen
more. There are incredible men and women at the FBI and they need help.

KELLY: Yeah.

THOR: And I will say something else Megyn.

KELLY: Quick. Quick. Actually, I got to cut you off because I have 10 seconds,
what a heart break. Great to see you Brad, thank you.

BRAD: You too. Thank you.

KELLY: A lot more when police come up to the microphones. Stay tuned.

KELLY: Breaking tonight, we're still awaiting a news conference from law
enforcement officials out of California where we hope to learn more about the
suspects here and what the motive was behind the shooting today that claimed the
lives of 14 Americans and injured another 17.

And Fox News is learning new details on a possible lead suspect in that San
Bernardino shooting. Chief intelligence correspondent, Catherine Herridge, joins
us live in Washington.

All right Catherine. So, let's start with what we know and what we don't know.
They they've confirmed to us so far as of this hour is, forget -- I guess it's
forget about the three suspects, now we've limited to just the two who are dead?

CATHERINE HERRIDGE, CHIEF INTELLIGENCE CORRESPONDENT: That's two suspects and
the primary name that we have been working with for several hours is this Syed
Farook. It was first identified to us as a lead assailant, who is a U.S.
citizen. The original name we got was much longer, we were told at that time
that they did not get positive hits on the watch list.

They then began working with the shorter name, Syed Farook. And we were told
that's the name in play. A strong lead and a likely suspect in this shooting.

KELLY: Did they say he was on a watch list?

HERRIDGE: No. They said that they had a longer version of the name. It was Syed
Farook and then two other names were attached to it. That was initially, sort of
pulls through the databases. And they did not come up with positive hits for
that sort of extended version of the name, Megyn.

KELLY: OK, and no one has released the name of the woman. We don't know whether
it is Syed's wife. There's an assumption to that effect given what CAIR just
said about Syed and his wife being missing.

HERRIDGE: The brother-in-law, correct.

KELLY: Right, since this morning.

HERRIDGE: That's right. The other thing that's going on with this name, Syed
Farook, one of our counter terrorism contacts has confirmed to us that they have
been tasked by federal law enforcement to basically do what is called an
electronic scrub on this name. That means that they're going back and doing data
aggregation.

So, they're looking at social media, Facebook, but specifically with an eye to
their network of contacts, and the messaging in the days leading up to the
attack. To understand who they were in touch with, and also, critically, that
frame of mind in the days leading up and associations with this, what appears to
be a target set, Megyn.

KELLY: Catherine, what do you make of this? If this is a guy that worked for
this, you know the county for this group, who's married. If this is Syed and his
wife, how unusual, to -- if this is radical jihad -- to have the wife come in
because now, they're saying it's just these two, to have the wife actually come
in and wear the mask and shoot a bunch of people?

HERRIDGE: What's been extraordinary to me as this has really unfolded this
evening, Megyn, is that there has been a real sense of -- I'm not sure, unease
is the right word. But people couldn't quite take what happened in California
and put it in what I would describe as sort of a neat box to understand what
they were looking at. There were several theories that were floating around
there.

Sort of the most-important developments, I think, we've seen this evening was
that last news conference with the assistant director of the FBI out in Los
Angeles saying that, there was new information that had caused them to make the
sort shift or tilt saying that terrorism was a possibility.

But this doesn't seem to fit sort of that paradigm that we have seen in the
past. But what we do know is that Syed Farook is considered a strong lead, a
possible suspect and that they're working very hard to understand his network.

Because at this point of the investigation, what we're not seeing is this effort
to really understand who his closest associates are. And I'm interested to see
in this news conference coming up. Is whether the FBI and sheriff's department
will be able to say to the viewers and people of California in that area,
whether they feel that this is now contained because that is really job number
one right now. Is it contained?

KELLY: Right, and especially if they're saying, forget of that thing about the
third suspect. And earlier they said, we saw him running away from the SUV.
We're questioning him. We're not saying he's a suspect. So if they're really
saying it came down to these two, there's got to be another investigation
underway. Because they're not given the amount of firepower they brought, the
amount of planning that went in to it.

And just the fears based on -- even if this isn't terror, Catherine. Based on
what we saw in Paris where there was another attempt underway. And just the
general fear that another shoe is going to drop.

HERRIDGE: I mean, just to give you some context of the kind of pressure the FBI
is under at this time. Just taking the shooting in California and putting it to
one side. We were able to confirm to one of our contacts that when the FBI
director James Comey said that they had dozens of cases with suspects under a
tight scrutiny, well that dozens of cases is in fact more than 48 that are
subject to what's called the special surveillance group or these mobile
surveillance teams.

This is 24/7 surveillance. It takes agents, local authorities, cops -- you're
talking about more than a dozen people assigned to an individual suspect. The
number is upward of 48. You can do the math to understand what that looks like.
And that is a separate from what we think has gone on in California. So that
gives you a sense of the aids of the stress and the testing of the system that
the FBI is under at this point.

KELLY: Catherine Harris, thank you.

HARRIS: You're welcome.

KELLY: Tim Clemente is a former FBI Counter Terrorism agent, former FBI SWAT
team leader and former U.S. Military advisor in Iraq. Tim, what do you see here?

TIM CLEMENTE, FORMER FBI COUNTER TERRORISM AGENT: Megyn, it's hard not to see
the obvious. Obviously the FBI hasn't come out and exclusively said that it is
terrorism. But I got a lean in that direction. I mean when all these cubes stack
up and it looks like a pyramid. You got to call it a pyramid.

KELLY: Based on what? Based on what is it the name? I mean what is it?

CLEMENTE: The name doesn't hurt. Obviously that points us in that direction, the
fact that he's been said or described by a family member that devout Muslim. The
fact that he's a 20 year old male right in the age group that most Islamic
radicalists are radicalized, that's the age group. Also that.

KELLY: And Tim, let me interrupt you. To those who are of to those who say,
well, you must be a bigot because you've heard a Muslim name, and you have
jumped and you heard he's religious and jumped to conclusion that he must be a
terrorist? Well, of course he's alleged to have participated in a mass murder
but why can it be work place violence?

CLEMENTE: It can be Megyn, it can be both actually. Well he may have taken the
opportunity of using the place where he worked as a soft target for terrorist
attack. And for those that might think I'm a Muslim hater, I would say that I
probably have many more Muslim friends around the world than by far of the
average viewer of the program.

KELLY: No one really think that about you. I'm just saying. That's the debate
goes on this country.

CLEMENTE: Hundreds. Yeah, I know. But, no, I understand that but the reason I
bring that up is because those Muslim friends of mine fight this the same way I
do. They are a big part of this fight all over the world. I was in North Africa
last week and the Middle East the week before. And, you know, this problem is
something that's permeating the world.

And I can't say with absolute certainty that it is Islamic extremism but it sure
looks that way. And I'm not afraid to say that based on what we've seen thus
far. Obviously more information will come out. Hopefully this next press
conference will give us a few more indications on what was found in the home,
what was found in the SUV and what was found at the initial crime scene. But the
fact that.

KELLY: What's definitive proof, you know, in today's scene is what kind of
definitive proof are they looking for in terms of motive? Are they going to find
-- if they don't find sort of Jihadi amphlets in there, what's the proof?

CLEMENTE: You don't need, Megyn you don't need to have this guy to have written
out a manifesto that he's going to do something like this. The definitive proof
is obviously the act points in one direction. It's a substantial step towards a
terrorist act. What he did, what he committed. Also he could have communication,
he could have books. He could have literature and he could have other things in
his home, or in the, you know, SUV that were target lists of other places that
were not .

KELLY: There's going to be so sort of thrill in other words. I mean this is a
guy that went back to his house after he committed the crime allegedly and
possibly. And so the odds of him wiping everything clean and leaving no clues,
whatever the motivation are pretty slim. I've got to run. Tim, thank you.

CLEMENTE: You're welcome.

KELLY: Again, we're waiting to hear from the officials, moments away. They're
running a little late now. But you can see there at the microphones are setup
and we expect to get an update from the FBI moments from now, also when we come
back, our reporter who is in the middle of it all, today.

KELLY: Waiting again to hear from authorities on an update as to whether this is
in fact terrorism as the signs appear to be suggesting now. Adam Housley has an
update on that, live in San Bernardino. Adam?

HOUSLEY: Yeah, Megyn. A couple things for you and some big details. Actually
first of all I've been told by law enforcement that they believe that they
killed the two suspects, that they didn't shoot themselves that at the actual
during that chase that exclusive video that Fox has, that during that video, the
suspects were shot and killed. The second thing is we want to clarify also when
I said the law enforcement talking about the individual going there and casing
the location.

Yes, they believe he knew the location but they use the word case meaning that
he went to check it out to see if it was soft and if there were a lot of people
inside. That was the theory they were going on. I have now been told and this
all makes sense now that a Joint Terrorism Task Force is involved and basically
that they're looking for a motive.

Read into that what that you want Megyn but when the JTTF gets into it, you know
that they believe there could be a something pretty serious involved that I'll
leave it at that. Basically the quote was "JTTF involved not characterized it
yet because we don't have a clear motive, still early."

Roughly -- that actually makes a lot of sense, it is still there early. They
still got into the house and got stuff out and so gout out of the stuff out of
the SUV. There's a lot of investigative work to be done here, including online
stuff but again headline here, the JTTF, Megyn, is involved in this
investigation.

KELLY: Adam, thank you. Joining me now is Joshua Katz. He's a former CIA
operations officer and now specializes in homeland security and intel. What does
that mean, Josh that the Joint Terrorism Task Force is now getting involved?

JOSHUA KATS, FORMER CIA OPERATIONS OFFICER: I think, Megyn, it means that we are
now seeing that this is now a terrorism investigation. This is going to be
terrorism whether this couple was motivated by ISIS, or Al- Qaeda, we'll find
out whether they were directed, it's not looking like a directed attack. Because
a lot of the indications here are that this was personal. There was a personal
thing going on here that's going to come out as well.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We still got all these stuff going on. Oh they're after
somebody. Oh

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Sorry. I'm sorry Josh I'm losing my ear. Talk about the significance. I
mean I've asked about this before but if this is a husband wife pair who
committed, you know, murder, that's one thing.

KATZ: Right.

KELLY: If this is a husband, wife radical Jihadi pair who committed terror,
that's something -- have we seen that before in the United States?

KATZ: This would be the first time that we have seen that here, but we have seen
this play out in lots of different parts of the world, in Northern Africa, the
Middle East even in Southeast Asia. So this sort of pairing is not necessarily
abnormal, but it is for us. And this is -- absolutely, we get to the heart of
the matter here, Megyn, which is that terrorism it doesn't look like we've been
told. It's very, very fluid. It changes and we all need to be alert to all of
the -- even little signs here that something maybe happening with somebody or
one of our coworkers or what have you.

KELLY: But if you were tapped by President Obama tomorrow, to stop home grown
terror, to stop, you know, even Jihadis coming in from other countries not with
the Syrian passport, right but with maybe some European passport. Maybe they're
French born and they're coming to United States. How would you do it? What do
you need? This is they're getting a white balance on the camera to make sure
that the shot looks OK so presumably we're going to get a press conference soon.
Go ahead, Josh.

KATZ: And so, Megyn, this is there's a bunch of steps here but first of all we
have to root. We have to go for the heart of the problem which is radical Islam.
We need to take care of that and take care of that a forceful way.

KELLY: Is that, you're talking about a generational effort. I mean that's today
people want to know how they're going to protect their children and themselves
today.

KATZ: Absolutely but we have to do that in concert with all the surveillance of
people, the arrests of people, the intelligence that needs to go on both at home
and abroad. This is.

KELLY: OK, but -- OK. So surveillance doesn't work unless somebody has broken
the law. Do we have some reasonable suspicion about them beyond their ethnicity
or their religious affiliation?

KATZ: Yes.

KELLY: So now, intelligence. OK. How do you get it? I mean is it, you monitor
the web site they're going to? Do they keep track of people who buy bulletproof
vests and cameo gear with no military affiliation? I don't think they do.

KATZ: No, no. We shouldn't do that because there are a lot of indications here
if were looking in the right places. And so, what the intelligence apparatus
needs to do is it needs to have more of the human intelligence part to get
people on the ground trained human collectors who are doing this abroad because
we need to fight this before it ever gets to the U.S. and lets that's the thing
is we need to push that out and make sure that we as a society are safe and
let's have this conflict somewhere else.

KELLY: Yeah. Josh, thank you.

KATZ: Thank you.

KELLY: You heard him say it. Joint Terrorism Task Force is involved in that in
the eyes of our guest means this is now a terror investigation. Joining me now
is David Danelski. He's a reporter with Press-Enterprise. He was in the middle
of the action today when police shot and killed two suspects in a dark SUV in
San Bernardino. David, thanks for joining us. He's with us by phone. Tell us
what happened.

DAVID DANELSKI, PRESS-ETNERPRISE REPORTER: Well, as one of several reporters on
news paper spent to cover the story. And I was actually at a community center.
This was a community center where family members were waiting for love ones.
Speed bus back from the facility when the shooting occurred and we talked to a
few family members. Wow, is there I got a tip from a resident who had got a cell
phone call saying that her work place in another part of town was under a lock
down because there was a sighting of the SUV there.

So I thought I'd go check that tip out. And there are larger of the City of San
Bernardino cordoned off by police so kind of a wide circle to try to get to this
location. And I honestly thought it was be another a rumor to chase. And then I
saw several police cars basically turn on the streets called San Bernardino
Avenue going into the next town of Redlands so I was wondering what was going on
there. So I started driving at San Bernardino Avenue then, I was driving.

KELLY: Let's just, let's get to the part where things really started to unfold.

DANELSKI: Yeah, OK, sorry. OK. That part is right now. Then as I was driving I
heard a thunderous shot and the whizzingg sounds going by the car. So I pulled
over and I heard more, I grab my -- and I could see police were gathered in a
group about a half a block away. So I tried to get closer with my camera. And
then, behind me, more and more police started arriving and more and more
shooting was occurring and I.

KELLY: Could you tell that it was a return of fire that the SUV was firing back
at cops?

DANELSKI: No. From my point of view, I could not see which way the gunfire was
going.

KELLY: How did they stop the SUV? How did it come to a stop?

DANELSKI: I didn't see that. It had -- it had already -- that there was no
traffic coming my way. It had already stopped and the shooting was continuing.

KELLY: Now, did you ever get close enough to see the condition of the bodies
inside?

DANELSKI: No, I did not see the bodies. I never did see the bodies.

KELLY: And yet, we've now had confirmation from the police that the two are
dead.

DANELSKI: Yeah, in fact no one knew about bodies been in that until the police
confirmed it several hours later.

KELLY: And hopefully they're about to give us more information. And David thank
you, we appreciate it.

DANELSKI: OK. Thank you.

KELLY: Look, you can see the police are now getting ready to come to the
microphones. We should expect, we hope, a more fruitful update from the
authorities. We do not know whether they will declare that it is terror or
whether they even can. Obviously, they need to be careful in their language. It
is important for the American people to try to understand what happened today
and what the risks are before they go into the next day.

What potentially may endanger them and their families, and so they want to know
all they can. We've tried to bring you the options tonight and the FBI, we hope,
will bring you the facts and confirmations in moments. Our coverage continues in
a moment. Don't go away, I'm Megyn Kelly.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120202cb.251

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               31 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                           December 3, 2015 Thursday

                 SHOW: YOUR WORLD WITH NEIL CAVUTO 4:20 PM EST

Rod Wheeler & Associates - Founder Interview

BYLINE: Neil Cavuto

GUESTS: Rod Wheeler

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 658  words


(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She had noticed they had been, I guess, receiving packages,
quite a few packages within a short amount of time, and that they were actually
doing a lot of work in the garage. And she was kind of suspicious and was
wanting to report it, but she said, "I didn`t" -- she didn`t want to profile.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

NEIL CAVUTO, HOST: All right, that was a friend of a neighbor saying that -- you
know, that, look, that she had been noticing for a while that Syed Rizwan Farook
and Tashfeen Malik were often up very late, receiving packages and doing
something.

She did not want to call police, though, because she would look racist, I guess,
and that she was profiling.

Former D.C. Detective Rod Wheeler on what he -- what he makes of that.

What do you think, Rod?

ROD WHEELER, FOUNDER, ROD WHEELER & ASSOCIATES: You know, Neil, it`s
unfortunate, but one of the things that the community has to do is to support
the police.

And the way you support the police is by, if you see something, you say
something. But I have to admit, I talk to a lot of people, Neil, and they will
tell me, you know, Rod, I`m afraid to say anything because I will feel like I`m
profiling.

Look, we are living in -- during a time of war, Neil, and we can`t worry so much
about profiling. Maybe, just maybe, if this neighbor would have profiled a
little bit, and just called the cops, then maybe this thing would have been
avoided yesterday, but, obviously, that did not happen.

CAVUTO: You know, Rod -- and you`re a former police -- would the cops have
reacted that way?

I mean, her -- she would be anonymous. And so they might say, we have got a nut
on the phone here who is profiling or whatever. But even in that worst-case
scenario, which I don`t see, wouldn`t they check it out anyway?

WHEELER: They would have checked it out, absolutely. And that was my point.

And here`s the thing. The government has come out with a number of programs such
as the First Observer Plus program, where they`re trying to really, really get
people to call them, call a number, let somebody know.

The thing is, this woman -- and this is so important, Neil -- she saw several
men coming and going from this what we now are calling an IED factory, right?
And she really was worried about something, but she didn`t say anything else.

But here`s the question. Who else saw that, that did not call? Apparently, no
one saw that and called. So, again, you know, we can`t emphasize enough, we
meaning law enforcement, we can`t emphasize enough how much it would really help
us if citizens would just give us a call, remain anonymous, because we do have
ways of checking individuals out.

CAVUTO: But you mentioned something else, as you always do, and very pointedly
so, this idea that there were other men and they were all involved in the garage
doing something. That -- that makes me think, all right, there were other
culprits if that`s true. And where are they?

(CROSSTALK)

WHEELER: Well, you know what? That`s right.

And you know what I have been saying all day, Neil. I know we don`t have a lot
of time, but I have been walking around this entire area out here in San
Bernardino. I do believe -- and I don`t have any concrete evidence to support
this at this point -- but I do believe that the investigators are looking at
more individuals now other than just the two individuals yesterday, not so much
for actually conducting the shooting.

But I think these two people yesterday had the support of a small circle of
individuals who gave them assistance, because, when you look at the way the home
was booby-trapped, that one guy and that woman, they didn`t do it by themselves.
They had to have some help, Neil.

CAVUTO: All right.

WHEELER: So, again, if you just stay tuned, if you stay tuned, I think we are
going to hear about more arrests coming soon.

CAVUTO: Amazing, all right, as you were, Rod, at this coverage and analyzing
things.

I appreciate it, Rod Wheeler.

WHEELER: Sure.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120301cb.140

DOCUMENT-TYPE: INTERVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               32 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                           December 3, 2015 Thursday

                 SHOW: YOUR WORLD WITH NEIL CAVUTO 4:28 PM EST

Interview With Florida Senator Marco Rubio

BYLINE: Neil Cavuto

GUESTS: Marco Rubio

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 3315  words


NEIL CAVUTO, HOST: Yesterday, at this time, I was doing a taped interview with
Marco Rubio just as these tweets were coming to light from Democratic
presidential candidates and others berating this latest development in
California on guns.

We would later come to find that it wasn`t quite that black and white.

And when I raised it with Marco Rubio, he wanted to point that out, even before
we had a full dimension of what was really going on.

He was right. Listen.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

SEN. MARCO RUBIO (R-FL), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I think the left often pivots
to gun laws.

But the truth is, states like California, for example, have very strict gun
laws, as they do in Illinois and Chicago, as they do in Washington, D.C., as
they do in many other jurisdictions that have significant amount of gun
violence.

So it`s never been shown that these gun laws are effective, other than in
keeping guns out of the hands of law-abiding citizens. So, instead of all these
-- focus on gun control, we should be focused on what is causing this violence.
We don`t know about this particular case, but we know about others where mental
illness often plays a key and critical role.

CAVUTO: Do you get a sense, given more violent incidents around the globe, and
I`m even putting Paris in that mix, that there is a sense of global disorder?

RUBIO: Well, there most certainly is a global disorder.

And it`s driven by rouge countries like North Korea and Iran, by a gangster in
Moscow, by Chinese aggression and expansion in the Asia-Pacific region, and by
radical Islamic jihadists, not just ISIS, but al Qaeda and so forth.

So there`s certainly disorder globally. I`m not sure it`s directly related to
any of what is happening here domestically in the United States. What we have
here is a combination of mental illness, but also in some of the gun crime that
is occurring in this country, it`s criminal activity, individuals shooting at
each other, a bystander gets shot or whatever it may be.

And I think we have to ask ourselves, what has happened in this country, where
something like life and the values that create a strong society have been
undermined? And the answer is, you see a breakdown in family. You see hostility
towards the institutions in society that reinforce these values. And you see
that reflected in crime statistics and jail population and in many other
challenges that we face as a country.

CAVUTO: Senator, if I can move to politics, in the latest polls, you`re in
second, and one of the fastest surging candidates period right now.

Did you envision, when you first entered this race, that you would be where you
are now?

RUBIO: Well, I`m not sure where I am in terms of the polls...

(LAUGHTER)

RUBIO: ... because the polls come and go. They`re up and down.

And in terms of the polls, where you are depends on which poll you are reading.
We don`t pay a lot of attention to that. It`s relevant in the sense that it
determines where you stand on the stage at the debate.

But, other than that, it really doesn`t matter until you get to February and
people actually start voting and it counts. I have always felt optimistic about
our campaign. You can go back months, and you can see that we have always
believed that, as long as we continue to lay out our vision for America`s
future, and the ideas that -- what it will take to get us there, we have always
felt people would respond to that very positively.

So, we`re going to continue to run a campaign that is realistically focused on
our challenges, but also optimistically focused on our opportunities. I think
America has the opportunity to be greater than she has ever been. But there are
some things we`re going to have to do. We`re not on the right direction right
now. We need to change that.

CAVUTO: Senator, having had a chance to chat with you in the last debate on FOX
Business Network, one thing is very clear, that your emergence now has gotten
the attention of some of your competitors, including Chris Christie, who
dismisses, while he speaks highly personally of you, as too young and
inexperienced.

I want you to react to Chris Christie commenting on, I guess, new.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

QUESTION: Does Marco have the experience to be president?

GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE (R-NJ), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Listen, he doesn`t have my
experience.

I have been through the fire here. New is wonderful. It`s great, it`s shiny,
it`s untarnished, and everybody loves new. It`s really exciting. New is great,
until you need experience.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CAVUTO: What did you think of that?

RUBIO: Well, look, when you run for president, all these candidates are going to
look for what they need to say to convince you to vote for them, instead of
someone else. So it`s a normal part of that process.

I like Chris Christie. We get along well. I think he is a good guy. We agree on
a lot of issues. I can only tell you who I am and what I have done. And if you
look at foreign policy, for example, I`m -- I say this repeatedly. With all due
respect, I don`t think there`s anybody on that stage that has a better
understanding or has shown better judgment on the issues confronting our country
than I have, whether it`s what is happening with ISIS, what is happening now in
Libya, what is happening in Syria, what is happening with Russia and the Middle
East.

Time and again, sometimes years before it happened, we clearly warned of what
the consequences would be of our current policies under the Obama
administration. So we will continue to focus on that. And we will let the voters
decide who has the right temperament, judgment, and experience to guide our
country here into the 21st century.

I remain confident that they will decide we are, we`re the right people for
that.

CAVUTO: Given your personal friendship with Chris Christie, then, you would
entertain him as a possible running mate?

RUBIO: Well, we`re far too early in this process to talk about any of it.

(LAUGHTER)

RUBIO: As I said, and no one else is going to talk about it. He is running for
president. I`m sure he wants to win as much as I do.

So we are going to focus on that. And I will say we have a very talented group
of Republicans running. We`re very fortunate. None of our candidates is under
FBI investigation. And none of our candidates is an avowed socialist. So we have
a strong field.

And I think what is going to give us a strong nominee, someone who can unite our
party, because, if we`re not united, we can`t win, but also attract new people
to vote for us who perhaps in the past haven`t voted for us, because the
Democrats convinced them we don`t care about people like them.

We do. And we`re going to show how limited government, free enterprise and a
strong national defense, the key pillars of a strong conservative movement, are
better for all Americans than what Barack Obama is doing now.

CAVUTO: When you have people like David Petraeus and Madeleine Albright
petitioning Congress to say, look, it`s not a good idea to stall these Syria
refugees and their influx into the United States, that it sends the wrong
message, and then, to ink it, they get Henry Kissinger to agree, do you think
they`re saying that Congress is overdoing it on freezing refugees and you`re
making a big mistake, and that, in your case as a presidential candidate, it`s
actually hurting the party?

RUBIO: Well, look, here`s the thing, is, my position isn`t that we don`t - -
it`s not that we don`t want to accept refugees. It`s that we may not be able to
accept most of them, because you can`t accept people from that part of the world
unless they`re fully vetted.

And most of them cannot be fully vetted. We just don`t have accurate databases
or information to vet them against. And this is a very unique refugee crisis. In
the past, we have understood a lot more about the refugees, because they were
fleeing communism, they were fleeing something else.

But, in this case, it`s a very unique situation, where you have a group like
ISIS that is openly trying to use the refugee crisis as a way to insert foreign
fighters into the West, where you have people coming from a part of the world
where radicalism is growing, where we don`t have anything on which to vet them
against or compare them to.

So, common sense still applies. If it`s a 7-year-old child, if it`s a 90-
year-old widow, if it`s a well-known Chaldean priest, these are people your can
vet. But a vast number of them are people we will not able to vet. And given
what is happening around the world today, we cannot accept people into this
country who we don`t know who they are or why they`re coming.

And that`s the big problem, and it`s a -- I understand it`s a unique challenge,
but it`s one we face here in the 21st century that we have to take very
seriously.

CAVUTO: You know, Senator, I know you`re very busy on the campaign trail, but
ISIS has just released another video, I guess, showing how it would target New
York and Washington and a host of other cities.

But I always wonder, Senator, how this even gets up to begin with, and it just
premieres, and then they try to clamp down and try to hide the video.

If you became president, what would you do about that? Because there are lot of
privacy rights enthusiasts who say, don`t go too far. What you do to sort of
weed out bad guys threatens the freedom off all guys.

RUBIO: Well, first we have to understand why ISIS does this. They`re trying to
attract people to an apocalyptic vision of Islam.

They openly brag and talk about that they`re motivated by a desire to trigger a
final apocalyptic showdown between the West and their version of Islam. And so
we have to understand that is what motivates them and that`s why they put out
this propaganda. It tells you they`re not going to go away on their own. They
have to be defeated.

But I think we need to put out counterpropaganda that actually tells the truth
about what life its like under ISIS control, that actually undermines their
effectiveness in the minds of their potential recruits.

Now, propaganda has always been a part of every conflict we have ever been
involved in. And I think it needs to be part of this one. We need to cut off the
flow of people that are either joining ISIS or being radicalized by them by
offering clear and counter information.

Now, we still have to defeat them military, obviously, but we have to deal with
this propaganda war that they`re waging, because this is how they attract
fighters. That`s why they put out those videos, is they`re hoping to inspire
people to join them, either by conducting homegrown lone wolf attacks here in
the United States or by literally traveling to Libya and joining their cause
over there.

CAVUTO: How would you take the fight to them if you became president? Because
our fear is that collateral damage if we go after ISIS positions, and we avoid
it.

Would you accept as president, Senator, the collateral damage and the real
likelihood, in going after ISIS strongholds, you would likely be killing
citizens?

RUBIO: Well, the thing -- we would certainly want to diminish them.

But here`s the point. When an opponent, when an adversary is openly using
innocent civilians as human shields, you cannot guarantee that civilian
casualties will be zero. We will take all the best efforts possible to avoid
them, and we will certainly not target civilians, but we cannot allow them to
use them as human shields in a way to impede our objective.

Ultimately, ISIS cannot be defeated solely from the air. They have to defeated
on the ground by an armed group. And it has to be made up primarily of Sunni
Arabs. If it`s Western forces, it won`t work. Kurds are not interested in
fighting. They can`t liberate Sunni villages.

Kurds are only interested in fighting in those parts of the countries -- or
those countries where there are Kurds. It has to be defeated by a ground force
made up primarily of Sunni Arabs. It will require more special operators and
more airstrikes.

(CROSSTALK)

CAVUTO: I`m sorry. But what if it`s more American ground forces?

We have heard talk of about 200 additional ground troops. Your opponent in this
race Lindsey Graham has said it has got to be 10,000. And the numbers go back
and forth, that American boots on the ground, it is just unavoidable if you want
to take the fight to ISIS.

RUBIO: Well, there will have to be a significant number of special operators on
the ground to help with the airstrikes, to help with the training, to help
coordinate high-profile assaults.

CAVUTO: Well, what is significant, what is significant?

RUBIO: Well, I don`t think there`s a magic number.

People are throwing around numbers as if there`s a magic number to it. I would
say that it has to be based on the tactics. We lay out the objective to military
commanders. They present to us their plan to achieve that objective, and
embedded in that plan will be the number of fighters that they need to help
accomplish it.

And that`s what we would make our decision based on. We have not yet heard from
our military experts what the number should be, because the president hasn`t
laid out a clear strategy about what it is we are trying to achieve.

ISIS cannot be contained. They have to be defeated. And in order to defeat this
group who is trying to lure us into a ground war against them with primarily
Western forces, because it fits into their narrative that they`re going to
trigger this apocalyptic final showdown in the city of Dabiq in Syria -- that`s
why their magazine is named "Dabiq."

That`s what they`re trying to do in many ways. We have to ensure that they are
rejected ideologically and defeated militarily, primarily by Sunni Arab
fighters. But we`re going to have to put special operators alongside them. What
the right number is will be determined by the tactical plan that our military
commanders present.

CAVUTO: You know, separately, as you have been hearing with -- on the domestic
issue that is getting a lot of attention, Obamacare, UnitedHealthcare, the
latest insurance company, perhaps the biggest one to say, these exchanges are
killing us, they`re costing us an arm and a leg, and we just might opt out,
other insurers, Aetna and a host of others, have said, much as you kind of
telegraphed a few years ago, Senator, that they would be coughing up some money,
and this wouldn`t be the draw it was.

Now, that is the great backstop for Obamacare, the key funding mechanism. So, if
they opt out of the exchanges, then you have to wonder how you finance this. And
an issue of a bailout has come to mind.

In other words, that since there are 8 million to 12 million Americans who
picked up insurance, you can`t leave them high and dry. What do you say?

RUBIO: Well, we had these exchanges. What people don`t realize is that, under
Obamacare, there is something called the high-risk corridor. It`s a bailout
fund.

And what it basically says is that if these companies participate in the
exchange, and they lose money, they can go after taxpayer money to bail them out
for their losses. Last year, I was successful in getting language at the end of
the year in the budget bill that took that bailout money away.

And as a result, these companies have lost money, and now some of them are
talking about dropping out. Next week, we`re going to have to do it again.

CAVUTO: Did you know that would happen, that this was your own way to...

RUBIO: Absolutely.

CAVUTO: ... get a self-fulfilling prophecy?

RUBIO: No, absolutely.

In fact, I have been talking about it since 2013. I have been saying these
companies are going to lose money and they`re come to the American taxpayer for
a bailout. And because I was able to achieve what we did last year, we saved the
American taxpayer $2.5 billion of taxpayer money that instead...

CAVUTO: And Darrell Issa has quoted that and commended you for that, and why --
one of the reasons he`s supporting you.

But I guess the question comes back to, well, you saved all of this money and
you have avoided a means by which insurance companies can get someone to help
them out. You do risk the issue of a lot of people who have health care losing
that health care. Right? What do you do?

RUBIO: Well, that`s not the issue.

The issue is that the health care plan that has been created is not a
sustainable plan. It cannot exist and it cannot move forward without us bailing
out private insurance companies. And that was their argument that was made from
the beginning.

CAVUTO: No, I know what you`re saying. But they`re going to blame you.

If a Hillary Clinton were the nominee, Senator, she will say, these 8 million to
12 million have lost their insurance because Senator Rubio but that provision in
to choke off coverage, to choke off the insurers, and eventually to choke off
all those people.

RUBIO: Well, that argument can be used to bail out with taxpayer money any
industry in America.

And at that point, why shouldn`t we bail everybody out, not just insurance
companies, but the airlines, the automakers? Everyone could be bailed out then.

Here`s the bottom line. I don`t just want to repeal Obamacare. And I think if we
can -- if we can continue with this bailout fund, it continues to damage these
exchanges, and as a result you will see less companies participating in them.
But, beyond that, I think that we need to replace it.

We need to replace it with a system that allows every American, whether it`s
through a refundable tax credit or their own employers giving them money, to buy
any health insurance they want from any company in America across state lines
that is willing to sell it to them.

That`s a much better way to help people get insurance than a plan that requires
the American taxpayer to bail out private insurance companies who have decided
to cozy up to the Obama administration.

CAVUTO: Real quickly, sir, we`re hearing from some on the Republican Party, this
memo, this private memo, others not so private, saying the party has do come up
with a plan to stop Donald Trump, that he would damage the party.

John McCain worried that a Trump nominee -- nominee would kill the party`s
chances, even risk losing the Senate as a result. Do you agree with that?

RUBIO: Look, we`re going to have a strong nominee. I don`t believe it will be
Donald Trump, because I believe it`s going to be me. That`s why I`m running for
president.

But -- and I believe I can help unify this party and attract new people to the
conservative cause and help reverse the damage Barack Obama has done to America.

CAVUTO: Well, what are they so frightened about? Then what are they so
frightened about? Are you?

RUBIO: Well, you will have to ask them.

CAVUTO: Are you?

RUBIO: My campaign is not about -- no, because I think...

CAVUTO: Are you frightened about that?

RUBIO: No, because I think that -- no, I`m not frightened about it, because I
know that, at the end of the day, we`re going to nominate someone that can unite
our party and attract new people.

But we are going to have to have elections, and at the end of the day, if you
don`t want someone to be the nominee, then you have got to rally around and
support someone else to win. And that is why we have these elections. That`s
why, in the -- 10 weeks, the voters of Iowa are going to start weighing in, and
then a week after that in New Hampshire, and then a week after that in South
Carolina, and then Nevada and then a bunch of early states.

So, this is the way you move forward and do this. I don`t think this election is
about any unique individual. And, look, you can`t ignore the fact that Donald
Trump is in first place because he has touched upon something, a nerve, in the
American population, who are frustrated and angry at a broken political culture.

And I think we should spend more time focused on that message, which is
Washington is broken because it is out of touch and out of date. And both
parties are to blame. And we better nominate someone who is going to change
that. And that`s the core of my campaign.

CAVUTO: Senator Rubio, thank you very much.

RUBIO: Thank you.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120302cb.140

DOCUMENT-TYPE: INTERVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               33 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                           December 3, 2015 Thursday

                           SHOW: THE FIVE 5:00 PM EST

ISIS Recruiting Americans Via Twitter; San Bernardino Police Chief Commends
Team; San Bernardino Massacre: Was It Terror?

BYLINE: Greg Gutfeld; Dana Perino; Kimberly Guilfoyle; Eric Bolling; Juan
Williams; Catherine Herridge

GUESTS: Adam Housley

SECTION: NEWS: DOMESTIC

LENGTH: 8083  words


DANA PERINO, THE FIVE SHOW CO-HOST: I'm Dana Perino and welcome to The Five. We
are learning much more today about yesterday's massacre in California. Here's
what we know as of now. The attackers were a married couple, the parents of a
6-month-old baby. The husband, 28-year-old Syed Farook was a U.S. citizen, we
now he traveled to Saudi Arabia last year and returned with his 27-year-old
wife, Tashfeen Malik. Farook and Malik both stormed the Christmas luncheon
yesterday in San Bernardino, firing 65-70 rounds from their rifles, killing 14
and injuring 21. They were later killed themselves in a gun battle with police.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Gunshots, gunshots, gunshots. Oh, oh, they're killing that
guy.

(gunshots)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Get inside. Close, close the gate. Close the gate.

(Police car siren)

(END VIDEO CLIP)

PERINO: A dozen pipe bombs were found in their home along with materials to make
IEDs. But despite all signs pointing to terrorism, the government isn't ready
yet to label it so.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

LORETTA LYNCH, UNITED STATES ATTORNEY GENERAL: At this point in time it is
literally simply too early to ascribe either a motive or to describe their
connections to either groups. We do know that the gentleman who is deceased, the
man who is deceased was an employee of the organization having the holiday
party. So we don't know as we stated earlier, whether this is workplace rage or
something larger, or a combination of both.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

PERINO: Fox's Adam Housley joins us live from San Bernardino with more on this
investigation. And Adam, I know you were outside the house. One of the things we
don't know a lot about is about the wife. And I -- you've been there today, any
information from neighbors or anyone who possibly knew her?

ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: No. In fact that's part of the problem the
investigators are having. I just spoke to some people very close to this
investigation. They say the wife is quote, "A bit of a mystery." And that's
making this a bit of a mystery for them. They're getting a lot of information on
the husband, as you might imagine, being an American citizen. But they do
believe that the she may -- the wife may have had some sort of training. It does
-- it makes sense. And the reason why they go with that is that, you know, being
in the back of an SUV with an AR-15, and all the obviously, bombs that were
found and devices and weaponry. You know, that doesn't happen usually with
somebody who doesn't know what they're doing. So they're obviously going down
that avenue. And it shows that this investigation not only is expanding here in
Southern California, but across the country, for that matter, around the globe.

You mentioned them being in Saudi Arabia. The Saudi embassy said that they were
there for nine days. We know that, of course, authority to said Pakistan as
well. And the question really remains. Did the wife go to other places? Did they
get training? I mean, these are all part of the investigative processes. In
fact, behind me -- in fact, the house here in Redlands are just down the street
from San Bernardino. You can see they're actually going through their car right
now, Dana. And that's being really gone through with a fine-tooth comb by the
FBI. And just beyond the car, the residents where they found, you know, these
motorized cars with basically bombs on them or little bombs on them and also
pipe bombs and all sorts of materials. You know we got tipped off about this
last night. I have to be honest, when we were first told that this was being
found inside, well before authorities ever admitted it, we were a bit concerned,
because it's not something you would expect, obviously. Especially, when they
wouldn't rule out terrorism, but they also wouldn't rule out workplace violence.
But it does go to show why they haven't ruled out terrorism, why the joint
terrorism task force is involved here and why the search is really expanding
around the globe, Dana.

PERINO: All right. Kimberly Guilfoyle has got a question for you.

KIMBERLY GUILFOYLE, THE FIVE SHOW CO-HOST: Hi, Adam. Great coverage for us,
thanks very much, a lot of reports coming out and obviously, the FBI taking a
close look at this investigation. Having some of the most disturbing aspects
where the neighbors saw, that unusual kind of activity, people going in and out,
quite a few men going in and out of the place. You've got that combined with
some phrasing that they said this was like an IED factory with those
radio-controlled cars, that type of thing, pipe bombs and some of the stuff like
what we saw with the Tsarnaev brothers. What else are you hearing that along
those lines? Because it really begs the question, was this just one isolated
incident or were there other things in play and at work?

HOUSLEY: Well, I do know this. I mean, last night they said that when the JT,
when a Joint Terrorism Task Force got here, JTTF got here and also other
investigative agencies as well, they right away looked into that. I mean, that's
obviously a very strong concern for them. Especially, when they found out that
this individual had come or they had gone to Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and
potentially other places as well. So right away, they're looking, OK, are they
part of a larger terror network? Is this even terrorism? I mean, there's a lot
of sensitivity there as you know. And that's one reason why when you talk to
investigators, they tell you, "Listen, we got to make sure we get this right the
first time. We don't want to make any mistakes here." Was this a -- was that a
meeting or that Christmas party a catalyst? I mean, there are a lot of other
things involved. But as they told me, "you don't just do this spontaneous." They
told us last night way before the sheriff, or the police chief came out and said
that. You know, you don't show up with pipe bombs. You don't put that kind of
gear on. You don't have those motorized cars spontaneously, because you're upset
about work. And that's one reason why they're very concerned here, and then
rightfully so. But does it mean other people involved? No. But they are looking
at every single avenue. We've hear of searches taking place in other parts of
the Southern California area. Does it directly connect to this? Again, not sure,
and they're not going to tell us all those things because it's part of the
investigative process, Kimberly.

GUILFOYLE: Yeah, I'm looking for known associates as well, people that perhaps
could have been accomplices or part of the larger group.

HOUSLEY: Absolutely.

GUILFOYLE: Working in concert together.

PERINO: All right, Eric Bolling.

ERIC BOLLING, THE FIVE SHOW CO-HOST: Yeah, I sure -- and first of all, Adam,
great job as well, I agree. You had some great people to talk to last night on
the street. But I'm trying to figure out why we're afraid of calling it terror,
because it looks like terror, sounds like terror, and it bleeds terror. There
are reports that there's a radicalization that went on at some point. I'm --
this is - that's not my question. My question is there any discussion about
where these two individuals got the money to pay for all of this. Apparently, it
costs somewhere around $25,000 to $30,000, this equipment. Kimberly pointed out.

GUILFOYLE: Yeah.

BOLLING: The pipe bombs, the IEDs, the IED factory.

HOUSLEY: Absolutely.

BOLLING: The gins, the ammunition. This guy made $40,000 or $45,000 a year on a
civil servants salary. That's a lot of money to be spending on all this
equipment. It will beg the question, is there a financial supporter for all
this?

HOUSLEY: Absolutely, Eric. Great question, that's a word -- that's one of the
avenues we're going down today. Obviously, yesterday we don't have time to go
there, it was also late in the evening. That's the avenue we've been asking
questions about today. And that's also the reason why they say this woman is
mysterious, because they are going on the same avenues. They can go into the
bank accounts now that obviously, privacy issues are gone, they're dead. So that
helps them actually get into some of these bank accounts, if that's the case,
and follow the money. I mean, that's one of the avenues they have to go down.
They have to follow the money. And Eric, I do want to touch really quickly on
the idea of not calling this terrorism. I have to tell you, I talked to the
investigators, and I asked that question. Listen, I mean, if it looks like a
duck and if it quacks like a duck, it's a duck. You know what, why you press
them like? And you know, you got these people with multiple pipe bombs, you have
a base there, factory in this behind us. You had, pipe bombs with them with
extra magazines on the person when they were in the SUV, I mean, you had the
horror they caused at the center. I mean, this isn't a spontaneous -- and they
said that, not me. This isn't a spontaneous attack. But for all of us covering
this, obvious as well. And it is the reason why is nowadays, the FBI is -- has a
very specific and very narrow definition of terrorism. It's the whole semantics
things that we're in now and in the last six or eight years. Especially, it's
various -- they're very semantic -- they believe based on semantics. So that
definition of terrorism is very specific, and they want to make sure that it's
specifically that definition. Because if it's not, then they have a lot of other
things they have to deal with on the political side of things. So for them, they
want to make sure that they have it exactly, and they know was it a situation
where they were planning a terror attack and then this was a catalyst? I mean
there are a lot of variables there that they want to make sure they get correct,
Eric

BOLLING: Thank you.

PERINO: All right, Gutfeld.

GREG GUTFELD, THE FIVE SHOW CO-HOST: It's the prudence that wasn't shown last
week with the other shooting at Planned Parenthood, where everybody was calling
that terror, immediately. And it's interesting that they won't, they won't rule
out workplace violence. I'm wondering if they're going to rule out climate
change, since they believe that climate change leads to terror, who knows. Adam,
I was wondering about this dispute. Is -- was that dispute basically, it sounds
to me like a red herring that could have allowed this guy to leave early and it
looks normal that he's leaving?

HOUSLEY: Well, I'll tell you first of all that the investigators and a lot of
people involved in this case at the lower levels, Greg, are just as frustrated
about what happened in other investigation and this one as you guys are. I mean,
they want to be able to say certain things in a certain way, but because it
don't has to go up the chain of command and then they have to follow obviously
rules because of possible mistakes, and all that kind of stuffs. They're just as
frustrated in a lot of cases, just as you know. As for the red herring, it could
be. Because I know behind the scenes that the federal agents were a little upset
with the police department and the police chief, because -- for example, the
last press conference last night, he didn't even toss to them to comment on
anything, which he was supposed to do, and he was really hanging it on this
supposed argument. But then there are also witnesses say there was no argument
at all. He was there, as they put -- he chased the place, even though he knew
what he meant, he went to kind to see the place out, sat down for awhile and
then left. Some insisting that it could be -- you're looking at for making
insuring it was a soft target. Others say there was a confrontation. It really
comes down to people out different. Well, you and I both see an accident, we're
going to see it a different way. So the federal agents aren't sold at all, that
there was some sort of disagreement. Just so you know.

PERINO: All right, Juan Williams.

JUAN WILLIAMS, THE FIVE SHOW HOST: Adam, I was wondering about the fact that
they were -- you had this GoPro camera. They had the armored vests. I mean, this
-- they had so many of these kinds of preparations for a serious attack. I'm
told now there was no GoPro camera. But it just struck me, as the question is
when did they make these purchases? When did they get these items, do we know?

HOUSLEY: Well, there -- that's one thing they can track. They won't tell us,
obviously. We know the neighbors around here say is, that the apartment, the
stuff was coming into is right over there, over my shoulder, with that white car
on. Where, you know, you'll see the actual window blown out or knocked out, and
you'll see the investigative process in the car right in front of it. You know,
as for the tactical vests, I mean, as you know -- when you see things from a
distance, it might look like there's armor on them, and when we get close we
realize it was just a tactical vest, no armor. That's an easy thing to
understand. There still some -- honestly, some discrepancy about whether or not
there were GoPros or cameras there. You know, as you know in situations like
this, they had a lot of stuff in that truck. They pulled a lot of stuff out of
that shot-up SUV. And I still people insisting that they were -- it's you know,
that's a situation where we did it really matter, we don't know. It could mean
nothing. So at this point, we're going to focus on what the things we do know
and what do mean things, and that is the fact they had massive weaponry. Juan,
as you talk about. They got the stuff from somewhere, as Eric suggested. Where
did they get the money? And who do they know? Who else did they contact? You
know where did they get the weapons? They obviously bought the weapons legal.
But remember, while the weapons were legal, the clips were not legal. In
California, you only can have a 10-clip and you have to have a special button on
it. Those were 30 clips, no button. So while they had some things that were
legal, they had obviously stuff that weren't legal and it's obviously weren't
worried about laws when they were building pipe bombs. So there are a lot -- and
then you had the possible international connections. So there are a lot of
avenues to have to go down here in a very short time. And remember, we're just
basically 24 hours away. It was a little more on that from when all this
happened.

WILLIAMS: But Adam, you said that in fact, California has strict gun control
laws, but they were in violation of some of them. Do we know when the guns were
purchased?

HOUSLEY: We do. And that's part of the investigative process today. We're
actually working out of it, as you know, there are a lot of -- we're trying to
work on as well. There's some suggestions where the guns were purchased and when
and times, and that kind of thing. We're trying to basically get all of that
out. You know, all different agencies are reporting a lot of different things.
Some agencies were saying they weren't wearing masks -- they were wearing masks.
I can tell you that we were up with reported at all pretty much come true. And
as for where the guns were purchased, we're not just ready to say that yet,
because we don't know that yet for sure. But we're told by authorities, those
two weapons, at least the AR's and the pistols we believe were bought legally.
But obviously, you know, I don't know how much when it comes to how many rounds
you're allowed to have. I don't know what that law is, honestly, but I do know
the clips were illegal.

PERINO: All right. Adam, thank you so much. We will continue to watch your
excellent coverage.

The shooting in San Bernardino quickly turned political, the left pushing for
stricter gun control, even going as far as to mock those asking for prayers for
the victims. That's next, stay tuned.

BOLLING: Welcome back. After every mass shooting in America, there's a renewed
push from the left for more gun control. President Obama wasted no time to
politicize this latest tragedy.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, UNITED STATES PRESIDENT: We have a pattern now of mass shootings
in this country that has no parallel anywhere else in the world. And there are
some steps we could take not to eliminate every one of these mass shootings, but
to improve the odds that they don't happen as frequently, common sense gun
safety laws, stronger background checks. We should come together in a bipartisan
basis, at every level of government, to make these rare, as opposed to normal.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BOLLING: Steps we can take to eliminate mass shootings. I have a few, but
they're probably not the same ones you're thinking of, Mr. Obama. But
politicizing tragedy as it unfolds isn't new for democrats. Just before the
shooting, Hillary Clinton was pushing gun control.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HILLARY CLINTON, THE FIVE SHOW CO-HOST: Ninety Americans a day die from gun
violence, homicides, suicides, tragic avoidable accidents, 33,000 Americans a
year die.

(APPLAUSE)

CLINTON: It is time for us to say -- we're going to have comprehensive
background checks, we're going to close the gun show loophole. We're going to
close the online (ph) loopholes. Close the Charleston loopholes and the immunity
for the gun makers and sellers.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GUILFOYLE: All right.

BOLLING: And then right after the shooting happened, she tweeted this, "I refuse
to accept this as normal. We must take action to stop gun violence now." But
that's not the worst of it. Just look at this despicable cover on the New York
Daily News today, mocking GOP presidential candidates and the Speaker of the
House for offering prayers for the victims with this rebuke "God isn't fixing
this." K.G., Obama, Hillary, the vast left-wing wilderness uses tragedy to
defeat the Second Amendment. And they need chance they can -- your thoughts on
this one?

GUILFOYLE: Yeah, I mean it's just despicable. So why isn't it completely
appropriate to look to prayer, to look to God, and in times like this,
especially with tragic loss of life? And instead, it's shameful behavior on
their part where they're trying to politicize this to fit this it into their
ideology and the narrative that they want to assess. Nothing that Hillary
Clinton just said has anything to do with stopping what happened yesterday in
San Bernardino. None of it would have changed the outcome. So she is actually
misleading the public, the country, and trying to demonize people that are
lawful, abiding Second Amendment gun owners in this country. Her comments and
her inflammatory rhetoric, I think should just eliminate her even from
contention as somebody who has an idea about what's going on in this country and
about national security and foreign policy, because she's just completely
confused.

BOLLING: Juan, is God isn't fixing this? And this has been around the internet
all day and night, just on the Daily News. Is it about prayer and God, or is it
about the left wanting to force gun control down everyone's throats?

WILLIAMS: The left doesn't want to force it. I think most Americans. It's
overwhelming. Most Americans think that what Hillary Clinton just said is right.
You can close gun show loopholes. You can do more in terms of limiting the
availability of assault and military-type weapons to people who want to buy
guns. You can do more in terms of controlling.

(CROSSTALK)

BOLLING: That wasn't an automatic weapon. Those were.

WILLIAMS: Those were assault weapons.

BOLLING: They were semiautomatic.

WILLIAMS: Yes.

BOLLING: Their -- they were.

WILLIAMS: They were basically the kind of thing that the military -- it's almost
like an AK-47, is that it wasn't improperly loaded.

BOLLING: But Juan, it's a semiautomatic.

WILLIAMS: But anyway, my point.

BOLLING: Somehow, you would have to eliminate shot guns for the --

WILLIAMS: Let me finish the point.

BOLLING: If you're going to make.

WILLIAMS: Wait a second. Let me finish this point to you, though. I think to the
contrary, I think it's their right to politicize it. I think it's the NRA who
politicizes it and stops the republicans in Congress who offer properly, these
platitudes about God.

BOLLING: President Obama.

GUTFELD: All right.

WILLIAMS: But Eric.

BOLLING: President Obama, as they.

WILLIAMS: Let us do something for safety.

BOLLING: As they still investigating -- bodies was -- bodies were still laying
in the streets in San Bernardino, and President Obama brought up gun control.

GUTFELD: This is a recurring -- they took the war on terror and they turned it
into a war on immigration. They see the war on terror and they turn it into a
gun control issue. By turning this into a gun issue, Juan, you pay less
attention to the real threat. This is not about mass shooting. This was an act
of terrorism. It's saying it's a mass shooting, tells America to worry less
about perhaps, the biggest, greatest threat to civilization, the threat that's
going to affect your grandkids, Juan, long after you're gone. They may not make
it because of this threat. This act splits the politics into two camps. You have
one that screams for mass shootings, this is mass shootings. You have another
that says Islamic terror. So let's do the math. Which is worse? A mass shooter
in the end is self-limiting. They will shoot a lot of people. In the end, they
either commit suicide or they are shot, it's finite, it's over until another one
happens. However, a terrorist, when they create an act, it's to create a further
act to get a greater terror, to get a mass movement to create apocalypse.

GUILFOYLE: To feed jihad.

GUTFELD: The idea is that it's not self-limiting. Terrorism is not self-
limiting, it is expanding. So if you're doing math, you're doing straight math.
Mass shootings -- you're talking about dozens of people. I'm talking about a
factor of 10, a factor of 100. So I understand you're concerned over mass
shootings, but the concerned over mass death, the concerned of radical Islam
dwarfs that. This is a fight for our civilization. And every single time a
leader turns it into something else, it screws us over.

WILLIAMS: I'm not turning it into something else. I'm willing to acknowledge if
it's proven that this was terror, that it was terror.

GUTFELD: It's obvious that was terror, Juan.

(CROSSTALK)

WILLIAMS: But here is the point.

BOLLING: How is this not terror?

WILLIAMS: Hang on, but what my point to you is.

(CROSSTALK)

BOLLING: But my definition was this fall under.

WILLIAMS: Every day in America, we have many more people killed by guns than
were killed yesterday, in fact yesterday.

GUTFELD: OK. Let me correct you on that.

WILLIAMS: In Atlanta and Georgia someone was shot.

GUTFELD: Let me correct you on that.

WILLIAMS: And three others killed. Even you don't want to mention that.

GUTFELD: Let me correct you on that. According to John Lott.

WILLIAMS: Go ahead.

GUTFELD: More people died in Paris shootings this year, than the entire admit
during the administration, the Obama administration and over 500 people maimed
or murdered in Paris since last year.

WILLIAMS: Listen.

GUTFELD: No, let me finish. Gun violence is declining dramatically over the last
two decades. So this is the wrong battle. When you group everything under mass
shootings, you're using gang violence. You're using homicide. You're using
suicide.

WILLIAMS: Yes.

GUTFELD: You're using accidents.

WILLIAMS: In other words.

GUTFELD: That is different. That is different than a suicide (inaudible).

WILLIAMS: Easy access to guns.

(CROSSTALK)

GUTFELD: Suicide (inaudible) who destroy (inaudible).

(CROSSTALK)

WILLIAMS: yeah, yeah, but let me just say that in my neighborhood when people
drive by and shoot and kill, right? You say wait a second, why, how did they get
these guns? Where these guns.

GUTFELD: And why you are proving it with suicides?

WILLIAMS: I'm telling you, people who have guns, where you saying that you favor
suicide? You think we should give out guns for people to shoot themselves?

GUTFELD: No, let me finish first. Let me finish it, Juan.

GUILFOYLE: That is not what he said, and he knows that.

GUTFELD: I wish. I wish I was wrong on this and I wish you were right, because I
can deal with mass shootings. But the apocalyptic threat or radical Islam is so
scary that out president and he acknowledge it.

WILLIAMS: But it doesn't have to be one of the other.

(CROSSTALK)

WILLIAMS: I acknowledge it. What is wrong?

GUTFELD: No, the point is..

WILLIAMS: I acknowledge it.

GUTFELD: When you wish you were wrong, you know you're right.

BOLLING: All right.

GUTFELD: Because the reality is so frightening, you can't face it.

BOLLING: Then let me just get Dana, and your quick thought. President Obama's
timing on this stuff. I mean, tone-deaf.

PERINO: Well, I understand his -- I understand the pressure for a president to
comment immediately, and for candidates to comment immediately. And to comment
quickly without ever knowing the facts that the most important thing you can do
as a leader is to be restrained and to wait, because now it looks foolish.
Because this was not the same situation as what happened in Connecticut or in --
and I am -- I understand the president is very frustrated because he feels like
he has to deal with this. When the staff comes in and says, Mr. President, we
need to update you on a situation. And he feels immediately like he has to gun
control. This other thing on this cover, the God isn't fixing this. Remember,
this goes back to the less whole thing and President Obama leading the charge in
2008 with, you know, people clinging to Gods and guns.

Here's the thing for me on the prayer issue and on faith. Faith informs my life
and I don't judge anybody for how faith informs their life. But I know that I
work for a president who said every day, that he started his day with prayer. He
lived his life with prayer. He made decisions based on prayer. And that he could
feel when others were praying for him and that it sustained him and gave him
strength. And I think that making fun of people for actually calling for
something that you know, and if it informs your faith, if you think that prayer
actually helps you and could give some sort of comfort to people who are in the
middle of a terrorist attack in their own country, that this is actually very
shameful for The New York Daily News.

(CROSSTALK)

GUTFELD: Can I say one thing, one thing, please. If you look at this, what does
it say? It says God isn't fixing this. If they had any balls, they would have
said Allah.

WILLIAMS: You know what they should have said? They should say God helps those
who help themselves in the United States of America.

GUTFELD: That's not The Daily News, Juan.

WILLIAMS: For not doing anything about the widespread use of guns.

PERINO: Actually, you could say.

(CROSSTALK)

PERINO: Policies are causing this.

BOLLING: All right.

GUILFOYLE: This is nothing to do with guns and you know it. Don't even sit there
and be.

(CROSSTALK)

GUILFOYLE: This has to do with terrorism.

GUTFELD: Pipe bomb.

GUILFOYLE: It's happening in the United States.

GUTFELD: They were using pipe bombs.

BOLLING: Yeah.

GUILFOYLE: And an administration that is.

(CROSSTALK)

GUILFOYLE: Reluctant to call it radical Islamic terrorism.

BOLLING: Don't get sucked into this. This isn't about saying we shouldn't pray
or pray to God or prayer isn't fixing this. This is all about gun control.
That's what this is.

(CROSSTALK)

BOLLING: Absolutely.

GUTFELD: It should say Allah isn't fixing this.

BOLLING: I got to leave it right there.

This attack hasn't yet been connected to terror, but there are very concerning
reports that hundreds of Americans are actively helping ISIS right now, details
on that, coming up next on The Five.

GUTFELD: Still overheated over Juan.

(LAUGHTER)

GUTFELD: All right. Researchers now claim ISIS is using Twitter to recruit
Americans. Roughly 250 have taken the bait so far. The catch includes teenage
girls, college kids and army vet. A dog named Jasper.

PERINO: Hey.

GUTFELD: But it's no longer the world, you see. It's actually us. Through a
combination of ideology and technology, terror has grown a new face. Evil needs
no air force to cause mass death. All it needs is a drone, a man and anthrax.
It's not a palindrome, but the plan.

Which is why Rubio has it over Cruz on surveillance and Donald Trump agrees,
saying that when the world would like to destroy us as quickly as possible, I
err on the side of security. It's true.

But again, it's not just the world. Today killers are often homegrown. They are
the new needles. And to spot a needle, you need tools to sift through the
haystack. Sadly, that's miscast as infringing on privacy. A mistake born from a
zero-sum fallacy regarding freedom and security. We have freedom because of
security, the Second Amendment, our military, rule of law, even the luck of our
oceans around us provide us with security that has their own benefits and limits
to our freedoms. The oceans make it tough for ISIS to get here. But I also can't
drive to England.

The new reality is we aren't dealing with China, North Korea or old-school USSR.
Mutually assured destruction mattered to them. But to a suicide cult, they're
dying for it. Until we embrace the tools to engage the new enemy, we will die
with them.

So this is the largest number of terror arrests since 9/11, Kimberly. The
largest number. What does that tell you?

GUILFOYLE: Yes. It tells me that terror is alive and healthy and thriving in the
climate of ignorance. And a climate of reluctance to even label it what it is.
You have people that, yes, are afraid to see something, say something, because
they don't want to as a neighbor said they're racially profiling. Hurt anyone's
feelings.

Instead they're focusing on inanimate objects like guns, creating hysteria that
is misplaced in this country, instead of focusing on security and enabling us to
have the tools that we need to be able to prevent the gun or the crockpots or
the pressure cookers or the pipe bombs from being utilized.

GUTFELD: K.G., I'm glad you brought up the neighbor, because I have tape of the
neighbor to these terrorists, not workplace violencers, who didn't want to call
the police or do anything because he didn't want to appear Islamophobic.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They had -- I guess were receiving packages, quite a few
packages within a short amount of time. And that they were actually doing a lot
of work out in the garage. And she was kind of suspicious and was -- wanted to
report it. But she said I -- she didn't want to profile.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GUTFELD: Dana, this is what I call Islamophobia-phobia. Fear of being accused of
having Islamophobic feelings. And it actually prevents people from doing the
right thing.

PERINO: Right, so you know, see something, say something. It actually should
mean something.

GUTFELD: Yes.

PERINO: That should mean something. And hopefully, I know that there's
reluctance to rat on your neighbor for every little thing. But I mean, at this
point, I think the authorities, we have to give them the tools that they need in
order to try to protect us. Who knows what they might have been able to uncover,
if something just happened to -- an officer knocks on the door and says, "Hey,
what's going on here?"

GUTFELD: Yes.

PERINO: You know?

GUILFOYLE: But she's right: You can do it anonymously, too. I mean, there's
plenty of tools within the law enforcement arsenal to be able to investigate,
check people out, even if you call in a tip like that. And then find out: are
they on a watch list of any sort? Have they been in correspondence on forums?

PERINO: Or travelled to Pakistan or Saudi Arabia.

GUTFELD: But Eric, let's say you do call in and you're wrong. Then you will be
shamed.

BOLLING: By whom?

GUTFELD: By the left?

BOLLING: People who perpetrated this fear, the fear of being called a profiler
or Islamophobist. New face of terror. This is big. A woman, 26- year-old,
27-year-old woman, married...

PERINO: With a baby.

BOLLING: ... with a baby. Hands her 6-month off -- -old to a grandmother and
then goes commit jihad. This is all new.

Fifth graders in New Jersey plotting to blow up a high school in New Jersey.
This is brand new. This is a new world we're embarking on.

I called my son this afternoon. I said, "You're going to think I'm an idiot. I
don't care. If you see anything that's out of the normal, pick up the phone and
call the cop. Call me. I'll call a cop for you."

We have to now. We have to be vigilant and diligent and see something, say
something. Absolutely. And don't care if you're profiling and don't care if
you're called Islamophobic or whatever they want to call you.

GUTFELD: We have one person here, who actually -- you reaped the consequences
of, actually, this kind of behavior, right?

WILLIAMS: What do you mean?

GUTFELD: When -- didn't you write a piece about being on a plane?

WILLIAMS: Yes.

GUTFELD: You lost your job!

WILLIAMS: You know, the thing is -- the thing I've seen here is I don't agree
with the idea of stereotyping or just everybody reporting on everybody. I don't
think that's America. I do think you have to be responsible, see something, say
something.

But I think that it extends back to our argument in the previous segment, the
idea that there are all these guns around, and that you have a situation where
even now, you can be on a no-fly list that you're talking about and still go out
and buy a gun, which I think is nuts.

GUTFELD: You know, what's interesting about humanity and guns. Guns don't
ascribe to an ideology that says if you kill a lot of people, you will get 72
virgins. That's the difference.

WILLIAMS: You seem...

GUTFELD: A Prius or a pipe bomb can be deadly in the hands of a radical Muslim.

WILLIAMS: You know what, though? You can't give up America and all of our
principles and constitutional protections and say, "This is it. This is it. This
is it."

You have got to say very clearly, this is why Republicans voted with Democrats
to say the Patriot Act went too far. We do have to have civil liberties and
protect our rights, even as we fight the bad guys. We shouldn't become the bad
guys.

GUILFOYLE: Don't lay down Americans to be slaughtered with this weak ideology of
pacifism.

WILLIAMS: Or weak gun control laws.

GUILFOYLE: Pathetic. Pathetic.

Spill more blood.

GUTFELD: K.G. coming in with a punch at the end. All right.

Many heroes came to the rescue of the victims yesterday in California and took
out those two shooters before they could kill anyone else. Just another reminder
of how much police lives matter. Next.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: East San Bernardino, shots fired! We need a BearCat! We need
medical aid!

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GUILFOYLE: That dramatic audio captured on the local police scanner at San
Bernardino's brave law enforcement officers, pursued two married suspects who
just killed more than a dozen people and were now firing at them.

It's times like these that remind us all how lucky we are to have heroes like
those who will risk their own lives to keep us safe. Just watch and listen to
this officer who valiantly led a group of frightened victims at the Inland
Regional Center to safety.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Put your hands where I can see them. All of the way to that
deputy. You're going to make a left where the deputy is at.

After you. Thank you. Try to relax. Everyone try to relax. I'll take a bullet
before you do, that's for damn sure, so be cool, OK?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GUILFOYLE: Two officers were injured yesterday, but thankfully, they are both
going to be OK.

Now this afternoon San Bernardino's police chief spoke about the bravery of his
team.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO CHIEF OF POLICE: I'll tell you, as the chief of
this agency, I'm incredibly proud of the way that our folks responded. Not only
the initial response here, and the help that we got from our local and regional
partners, but for the way that they also engaged in that officer-involved
shooting. That was nothing short of heroic. I'm extremely proud of the way that
they handled that.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GUILFOYLE: And by the way, fantastic police work catching these suspects, even
long after the crime had been committed. They were able to chase them down,
identify them and take them out. I mean, that is really incredible.

When you think about the job that they did there. Under those very difficult
circumstances. And thank goodness that the police had the proper equipment that
they needed to be able to handle this there, because so much of this strategy
has also been about taking stuff away from the cops. We don't want to militarize
the police. It makes people upset and makes them feel like rioting, like we
heard about that.

BOLLING: All afternoon you're watching the coverage, and you're talking about,
OK, here's the crime scene. They seemingly vanished into thin air. No one knew
where they were going to be. There was the 10 and the 215 freeways are right
there. There's an airport a few miles away. And you're thinking how farthest
these people could have gotten.

And then all of a sudden, you've got the helicopters fixed on an SUV, and the
cops are shooting into it and they're taking down -- you're like, how did they
do that? Fantastic police work.

GUILFOYLE: Right.

BOLLING: Can I make one other point? If you look at the -- listen, cops are
doing a great job, and there's a lot going on. I know this whole information
thing is really important. You don't want to get it wrong.

But wow, that San Bernardino police chief and that whole crew there, getting the
information out the way they got it out, that was absolutely professional. It's
amazing the way they did it. A lot of other times you're waiting. You don't know
what to do. And the people in San Bernardino who don't know what their
situation, what their risk levels were. They solved a lot of that. They kept
people calm. That was fantastic police work from top to bottom, all the way to
the streets.

GUILFOYLE: So true, and that video was so compelling to see it last night when
people record things like that. That is a perfect example of police putting it
on the line every day and night. When they get up in the morning, they you know,
get dressed, put it on. No matter what people are saying about them, they don't
sit there and wear their, you know, feelings on their sleeve. They go in to
protect and serve, and that's what they did yesterday.

PERINO: They were doing a drill yesterday morning, actually using some of this
equipment that they ended up having to use in actual practice later in the day.
So that's an important thing to learn.

But I also think that, as good as the police work is, where we have to focus, I
believe is on the intel side. In order to help prevent these from happening.
This couple was under the radar, able to acquire all of these weapons and to
plot and plan this attack. We have to figure out a way to be better to help
police disrupt these attacks before they happen.

GUILFOYLE: Exactly. It's all about preempting. We love the heroism. But we've
also got to make sure that police don't have to put themselves in those
positions, because we're doing a job, and it's part of being the fabric of the
community, Greg, if you see something, to be able to report it and to also make
sure we put pressure on our government and elected officials to maintain
programs that are helping law enforcement and intelligence against terror.

GUTFELD: Absolutely. I just want to contrast the behavior here, this instinct to
stop and save lives to take a bullet. With the instinct you're seeing now on
campuses, the idea of the safe space. Here, we have a human being who will take
a bullet and a human being that can't take a word.

And people might think this is a false comparison. But actually, the contrast is
important, because it's showing you a strange direction of a country away from
action and more for passivity. We need to transfer the heroism of the police in
this public sector to the private sector. To teach people how to think this way.
That many can stop a few, even if the few is armed.

GUILFOYLE: Yes. Juan.

WILLIAMS: I just think, you know, there's no getting away from the idea that,
boy, thank God for the police yesterday. And I thought they did an excellent
job. I thought that they were -- they closed down large sections of San
Bernardino, which I didn't understand, because I didn't know where these guys
had gone. And it looked like, hey, they disappeared into thin air. That created
anxiety.

But I will say we can't use this moment somehow to distract or diminish or
excuse controversies about the police in Chicago or elsewhere. That's not what
this is about. That's politicizing this issue and trying to make it into
something that it's not.

GUILFOYLE: No one's saying we should do that. But you just did it right here.

WILLIAMS: No, because you had done it at the start of this segment.

GUILFOYLE: No, I didn't, all right? Don't ruin it, Juan.

WILLIAMS: Why bring up the facts, I know. I know.

GUTFELD: You're like the guy who breaks wind in an elevator.

WILLIAMS: I know. Boo.

GUILFOYLE: Next, we're going to go live to Washington where Catherine Herridge
has the very latest on the federal investigation, into these suspects and their
motives and their travel to the Mideast. Stay tuned. You don't want to miss it.

WILLIAMS: Back to the investigation into the husband-and-wife team that opened
fire on a group of workers at a Christmas luncheon yesterday. Chief intelligence
correspondent Catherine Herridge has the latest from Washington.

Catherine, very quickly, what about the wife? Everybody is very curious about
that. And very curious about ISIS saying that "The lions did us proud." What is
that? Does that mean ISIS is taking responsibility?

CATHERINE HERRIDGE, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Look, the bottom line with this
couple today is that we learned Syed Farook had been in contact with people. The
FBI had been tracking. But he had contact with them after those terrorism
investigations closed.

So he kind of slipped through the net of the FBI, same sort of field we had with
the Tsarnaev brothers. The couple was in Saudi Arabia in the sum of 2014. They
got married at Mecca. Then they came back here and, based on our reporting, were
married in Riverside, California, in July of last year.

The third thing is that the wife is really key here. The people I've spoken to
privately today have questioned whether she was, like, throwing gasoline on the
fire of radicalization and that she was the one who tipped him towards violence
and then ultimately terrorism -- Juan.

WILLIAMS: And the business about ISIS and what they had to say about the lions
roaring and all that and #AmericaBurns.

HERRIDGE: Right. Look, the key thing with the ISIS propaganda today is they are
cheering any kind of acts of violence in the United States. That they have not
claimed responsibility. And actually, the forensic evidence with those pipe
bombs, the detonation mechanism, uses these remote- controlled toy cars. That's
a signature of al Qaeda in Yemen. And their online magazine Inspire, which is
like a Martha Stewart Living for would-be jihadists, and teaches them how to
make bombs. So you have propaganda from ISIS, but no claim of responsibility and
physical evidence that points to al Qaeda in Yemen.

WILLIAMS: Kimberly.

GUILFOYLE: OK. So what else are we learning now about where the direction that
the FBI investigation is going to go?

HERRIDGE: Look, they're very focused on this relationship. I was told that
they're piecing together a timeline of the relationship, also their travels in
Saudi Arabia and Pakistan with a specific focus on their network of contacts.

They recovered today thumb drives, computers, also cell phones. They're being
brought back here to Washington, D.C. And they're going to be exploited at the
FBI lab in Quantico, Virginia. That's like a specialty area, and that also tells
you that this really is a high-priority case for the bureau.

BOLLING: Catherine, there was some reporting today that some of the detonation
devices on the IEDs could be traced back to al Qaeda. Is there any truth to
that, any link, direct link?

HERRIDGE: I think this is a very important data point, because these
remote-control toy parts that are used as detonators are not that typical. And
you typically see them in these al Qaeda-like devices.

So the Boston Marathon bombers used these pressure cooker bombs, and the FBI
concluded they learned how to make them through this Inspire magazine, which
comes out of al Qaeda.

We see something similar with these devices. The quantity of the devices is also
important, because it speaks to someone who was bomb-making technique and
familiarity. Not to have an accident with that many explosives. So this, the
bombs themselves point to A.Q. Though ISIS has been kind of ripping off their
instructions on the web and distributing them to their followers.

PERINO: I think I have a quick question. I hope it is. Inspire magazine. If we
know that it is basically published in Yemen. Why hasn't a drone flown over that
location and destroyed it?

HERRIDGE: Right. Look, I always like to say that is when they use a drone strike
to kill Anwar al-Awlaki, who was the leader of -- operational leader of al Qaeda
in Yemen back in 2011. You know it's one thing to kill a man. It's another thing
to kill his ideas. It's just not that simple to take out the production facility
for one of these online magazines, because it pops up somewhere else.

But al Qaeda in Yemen has really set the template for using social media and the
Internet as a way to drive recruitment and to also spread their ideas and to
spread their techniques.

So in this particular case, you can see that the devices in California had the
same M.O. of these devices that had been used by al Qaeda followers in other
parts of the world.

WILLIAMS: No question. Gregory?

GUTFELD: Just real quick, FBI were tracking, had been tracking this guy. How did
they reach a dead end on this? Like, how does that happen?

HERRIDGE: Well, maybe I was not clear. They were not tracking him. They
discovered after the shooting that he had been in contact with individuals. The
FBI had been investigating in terrorism cases. But here's sort of the key point.
He had contact with these suspicious individuals after the FBI had closed their
investigations into these people.

So it's like a timing issue, right? They look at this group. They decide to
close the cases, and then Syed Farook has contact with them after the fact. It
really feels a lot like Boston. Remember the Tsarnaev brothers...

GUILFOYLE: Yes.

HERRIDGE: ... were on the FBI's radar. They closed the case. And then he
launched that bombing.

WILLIAMS: Catherine, thank you so much.

HERRIDGE: You're welcome.

WILLIAMS: Some final thoughts coming up next.

PERINO: All right. Some closing thoughts in our final moments here tonight.
Kimberly, we'll start with you.

GUILFOYLE: The first thing I want to think about is take a moment to say a
prayer for the people that lost their lives, OK, just tragically yesterday in
the face of terrorism, and for the police department that really came together
to, I think, inspire us about the great job that law enforcement does every
single day.

And the last thing is to just make sure that in this country we don't cripple
ourselves by not having the tools and the resources necessary to combat violent
extremism and jihad in America, because it's here.

PERINO: Juan Williams.

WILLIAMS: I just want us to be overly political about this, because in this
year, 2015, we've seen South Carolina, Oregon, Colorado Springs and now San
Bernardino. And I think that President Obama is right, and it says other
countries just don't have the high frequency of these kinds of attacks. And we,
as Americans, can get beyond the politics, and do something.

PERINO: All right. Eric Bolling?

BOLLING: I mentioned it earlier. I did call my son, he's 17. He's in high
school. It's a good idea. Sit down with your kids, talk to them and let them
know that this isn't something that happens over there. It's something that
could happen here and again, millions of more eyeballs on the issue, not a bad
thing.

PERINO: Greg Gutfeld.

GUTFELD: This is a new era. The morally blunt response of our administration
calls for revolution of the same, which means it's up to every single
law-abiding citizen to train, prepare themselves against this battle. It's
either that or you will die.

PERINO: I'll just wrap it up by saying that I think that prayers are needed
maybe more than ever. And I do think they sustain people, and especially we
should pray for our law enforcement and intelligence community as they work to
try to protect us from terrorists who are hell- bent on destroying us.

That's it for us. Stay tuned for new developments throughout the night on the
shootings in San Bernardino. "Special Report" is next.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120301cb.258

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               34 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                           December 3, 2015 Thursday

              SHOW: FOX SPECIAL REPORT WITH BRET BAIER 6:00 PM EST

San Bernardino Shooting Rampage; Gun Control Debate; Women in Combat; Secret
Service Reports; Dollars and Sense

BYLINE: Bret Baier, Adam Housley, Peter Doocy, Carl Cameron, Jennifer Griffin,
Shannon Bream, Rich Edson

GUESTS: Jeb Bush, George Will, Karen Tumulty, Steve Hayes

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 7305  words


BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS CHIEF POLITICAL ANCHOR: This is a Fox News alert. I'm Bret
Baier in Washington.

Thousands of bullets, a dozen pipe bombs, some attached to remote- controlled
cars, a trip to the Middle East and social media communication with known
Islamic jihadists who the FBI was tracking at one time.

New details are coming to light as President Obama again used yesterday's
horrific mass shooting to push his gun control agenda today. But even the
President is acknowledging that the massacre of 14 people in San Bernardino,
California Wednesday may be an act of terrorism.

We have Fox team coverage tonight. Carl Cameron in Washington, with what
Republican presidential candidates are saying; Peter Doocy at the White House
where gun control, not terrorism appears to be the focus so far; But we begin
with senior correspondent Adam Housley live in San Bernardino again tonight.
Hello -- Adam.

ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: Hello, Bret, we've learned actually
from investigators that they believe that Syed may have contacted jihadi-type
organizations through social media. They do not know the extent of that contact
at this hour but they do believe that contact did happen and they are
investigating the depth of that contact.

Meantime it comes as the government of Saudi Arabia does admit that he and his
wife visited the country last year for nine days but they will not say that his
wife was a Saudi citizen.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE CHIEF: We still don't have the motive.

HOUSLEY: More than 24 hours after Wednesday's shooting rampage that left 14 dead
and 21 injured, there are still more questions than answers.

DAVID BOWDICH, FBI: This is not your average investigation, we have multiple
scenes, we have many victims and it will take time.

HOUSLEY: Witnesses say Syed Farook abruptly left a holiday party for the county
health employees at the Inland Regional Center. And when he returned, the
28-year-old county restaurant inspector and his wife, Tashfeen Malik, were
dressed and prepared for battle with legally-purchased weapons.

BURGUAN: The suspects when they entered fired somewhere between 65 and 75 rounds
from their rifles. However on their person, on their body and in the vehicle
they had over 1,400 223-caliber rounds and they had over 200 9-millimeter rounds
on their persons as well.

There appears to be a degree of planning that went into this. Nobody just gets
upset at a party, goes home and puts together that kind of an elaborate scheme
or plan to come back and do that.

HOUSLEY: Some of that planning apparently beginning at a home in Redlands that
the two had been renting for the past six months.

BURGUAN: The search that took place revealed that there were 12 pipe bomb
devices found in that house or in the garage of that house. There were also
hundreds of tools many of which could be used to construct IEDs or pipe bombs.

BOWDICH: If you look at the amount of obvious preplanning that went in, the
amount of armaments that he had, the weapons and the ammunition there was
obviously a mission here.

HOUSLEY: The FBI also analyzing digital media taken from the home along with how
the two had met and where they traveled. Malik who came to the U.S. from
Pakistan in 2014, was here on a K1 visa -- that requires marriage within 90 days
of arriving.

BOWDICH: We know there was some international travel. They both came into the
U.S. in July of 2014. They have since had a baby together.

HOUSLEY: The FBI has yet to rule whether or not this is terrorism.

BOWDICH: It would be irresponsible and premature of me to call this terrorism.
The FBI defines terrorism very specifically. And we are still -- that is the big
question for us is what is the motivation for this.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

HOUSLEY: Today, we're also learning, Bret, the victims' names, of course, as
well as those injured. Loma Linda Medical Center saying they still have two
patients in critical condition and the two officers injured are said to be in
stable condition -- Bret.

BAIER: Adam Housley live in San Bernardino. Adam -- thank you.

The suspects had not even been confronted by authorities in that shoot-out nor
had the victims been identified before President Obama linked the shootings to
America's gun laws with no mention of possible Islamic terrorism. Today he
concentrated on the former and only hinted at the latter.

Correspondent Peter Doocy is at the White House tonight.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Thank you very much, everybody.

PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Today after huddling with his national
security team, President Obama announced it's unclear why a couple in California
carried out a coordinated attack.

OBAMA: It is possible that this was terrorist-related. But we don't know. It's
also possible that this was workplace-related.

DOOCY: Despite that mystery, the President said he knows how to stop future
attacks similar to San Bernardino.

OBAMA: Common sense gun safety laws. Stronger background checks.

DOOCY: Does the President really think that common sense gun laws would deter
terrorists now that he has admitted these two may have been terrorists?

JOSH EARNEST, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: Yes.

DOOCY: So the President thinks when there are potentially two terrorists sitting
around planning a mass murder, they may call it off because President Obama has
put in place common-sense gun laws?

EARNEST: We're still learning of the precise motives of the individuals who
carried out this heinous act of violence yesterday. One thing we do know -- is
that the four firearms that they were wielding were legally purchased under the
laws that are in place now.

DOOCY: But Republican lawmakers aren't so sure the President is seeing the whole
picture.

SEN. PAT TOOMEY (R), PENNSYLVANIA: I've supported background checks for a long
time. I continue to support them. But the problem that we witnessed yesterday
appears to be a domestic terrorist and that's something we really ought to be
focused on.

DOOCY: The President is also trying to make a broader point now about sky-high
shooting stats.

OBAMA: We have a pattern now of mass shootings in this country that has no
parallel anywhere else in the world.

DOOCY: But when you define mass shooting, it's causing four or more deaths in
public and subtract gang or terrorist-related incidents, mass shooting rates in
the U.S. are about the same as Europe according to the Crime Prevention Research
Center, so the President's critics are expressing a familiar frustration.

JOHN BOLTON, FORMER U.S. AMBASSADOR TO THE U.N.: But his instinct is always
political. It's not presidential.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

DOOCY: Today the White House also insisted they've been working with Muslim
leaders to try and discourage vulnerable young Americans from becoming
radicalized. But when asked exactly who is involved in that effort, officials
here couldn't name anybody -- Bret.

BAIER: Peter Doocy live on the north lawn. Peter -- thank you.

While the President and Democrats are pushing the gun angle, Republican
presidential hopefuls are talking terrorism.

Chief political correspondent Carl Cameron reports from a major conference of
candidates and donors.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

CARL CAMERON, FOX NEWS CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: The Republican Jewish
Coalition Presidential Forum drew all the GOP candidates. They promised to
defend Israel, destroy Islamist terrorism and decried the San Bernardino
attacks.

SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: This horrific murder underscores
that we're at a time of war.

GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE (R-NJ), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We need to come to grips
with the idea that we are in the midst of the next world war.

SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-SC), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Well, if you think that
shooting in California is about gun control, then you don't understand what's
going on in the world.

CARLY FIORINA (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: If it looks like a duck and quacks
like a duck and sounds like a duck, maybe it's a duck.

CAMERON: Donald Trump had no doubts about it.

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Radical Islamic terrorism - - and I'll
tell you what, we have a president that refuses to use the term. He refuses to
say it. There's something going on with him that we don't know about.

CAMERON: Marco Rubio in promising to defend Israel took a shot at Trump for
telling the Associated Press he questions Israel's desire for peace.

SEN. MARCO RUBIO (R-FL), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Some in our own party in the
news today have actually questioned Israel's commitment to peace. Some in our
own party have actually called for more sacrifice from the Israeli people. They
are dead wrong and they don't understand the enduring bond between Israel and
America.

CAMERON: Trump got booed for refusing to say Jerusalem should be Israel's
capital as part of a Middle East peace deal and said while he would like to
broker peace between the Israelis and Palestinians, he's not sure either side is
ready.

TRUMP: I don't know that Israel has the commitment to make it. And I don't know
that the other side has the commitment to make it.

CAMERON: Where Trump was himself noncommittal, Mike Huckabee, an ordained
Baptist minister was not.

MICKE HUCKABEE (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: The United States needs to finally
make the definitive statement of who it's taking sides with and move its embassy
to Jerusalem and once and for all declare we know who our peace partner in the
Middle East is and it is Israel.

CAMERON: Dr. Ben Carson hedged on Jerusalem as the Israeli capital and just back
from a trip to Jordan to boost his limited foreign policy experience read a
30-minute prepared speech.

DR. BEN CARSON (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I view Israel as both our canary in
the coal mine, meaning that as Israel goes, so goes western civilization; but
also as the tip of the spear in this clash.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

CAMERON: The San Bernardino investigation may take months. But it's clear the
entire Republican field has all but concluded that jihadism in the American
homeland can no longer be considered theoretical -- Bret.

BAIER: Carl -- thank you.

Jeb Bush was our guest in "Center Seat". We'll show that a little later. If you
have questions, drop us a line at Facebook/BretBaierSR or on Twitter @BretBaier
use the #SpecialReport.

Hillary Clinton meantime took an uncomfortable but probably anticipated question
today during an event in New Hampshire.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You recently came out to say that all rape victims should
be believed. But would you say that about Juanita Broderick, Kathleen Willey
and/or Paula Jones? Should we believe them as well?

HILLARY CLINTON (D), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Well, I would say that everybody
should be believed at first until they are disbelieved based on evidence.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BAIER: The women mentioned have in the past accused Clinton's husband of sexual
harassment, assault or rape.

Up next an historic decision, the Pentagon officially gives the green light to
women in combat.

First, here's what some of our Fox affiliates around the country are covering
tonight. Fox 11 in Charleston, West Virginia where a jury has found former
Massey Energy CEO Don Blankenship guilty of conspiracy connected to a deadly
coal mine explosion. 29 men died in the blast at the Upper Big Branch Mine in
2010.

Fox 5 in New York as five Fifth Graders in northern New Jersey are suspended
after allegedly plotting to attack a high school during a field trip. Police say
the kids brought a non-explosive device filled with vinegar and cinnamon to
school. Teachers and administrators found written plans on how the attack would
occur. No criminal charges have been filed so far.

And this is a live look at Cape Canaveral, Florida tonight. One of the big
stories for Fox 35 in Orlando: a weather-related delay in the scheduled launch
of a rocket carrying gear to the International Space Station. The payload
includes 7,000 pounds of supplies and 250 research projects.

That's tonight's live look outside the Beltway from SPECIAL REPORT. We'll be
right back.

BAIER: A big shift in the U.S. Military. Women are now eligible for all
front-line combat positions including elite special operations units. The
Pentagon ended combat exclusion this afternoon.

National security correspondent Jennifer Griffin has reaction to this historic
decision tonight from the Pentagon.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JENNIFER GRIFFIN, FOX NEWS NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Standing alone at
the Pentagon podium, Defense Secretary Ash Carter announced his decision to open
all front-line combat positions to women.

ASHTON CARTER, U.S. DEFENSE SECURITY: There will be no exceptions. They'll be
allowed to drive tanks, fire mortars and lead infantry soldiers into combat.
They'll be able to serve as Army Ranger and Green Berets, Navy Seals, Marine
Corps Infantry, Air Force Parajumpers and everything else that was previously
open only to men.

GRIFFIN: The services have 30 days to make the historic shift. Female service
members who sued the Defense Department for this right welcomed the decision.

COL. ELLEN HARING (RET), U.S. ARMY: We cheered, we clapped, some of us cried a
little bit and I was one of them because it's been a long time coming for us.

GRIFFIN: Notably absent today was chairman of the Joint Chiefs, General Joe
Dunford who as Marine commandant, oversaw a study that found male-only infantry
units shot more accurately, could carry more weight and had lower injury rates.

Congressman Duncan Hunter is a marine who served in Iraq and Afghanistan.

REP. DUNCAN HUNTER (R), CALIFORNIA: The marine corps has looked at this
extensively and they're the only service that has done so. And they actually
came away with conclusions that it makes the fighting unit less effective.

GRIFFIN: Former special operations commanders have expressed skepticism.

ADM. ERIC OLSON (RET), U.S. NAVY: I think that we need to ask ourselves as a
society if we're willing to put women in front-line combat units to take the
first bullet on target or they're willing to cause every 18-year-old girl to
sign up for selective service. Are we willing to cause women to serve in
infantry units against their will as we do men?

GRIFFIN: 30 percent of all infantry units are made up of men who didn't
volunteer. Today Carter was asked if women could be forced to serve on the front
lines.

CARTER: Women will be subject to the same standards and rules that men will.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

GRIFFIN: Three women recently made it through Ranger school for the first time.
Now they're eligible for the Ranger regiment and could be the first female
special operators sent to fight ISIS -- Bret.

BAIER: Jennifer Griffin, live at the Pentagon. Jennifer -- thank you.

British jets struck ISIS oilfields in eastern Syria today just hours after the
British parliament gave the go-ahead for participation. Germany is preparing to
send reconnaissance aircraft to the region.

Russian President Vladimir Putin is calling for a powerful fist to fight
terrorism following yesterday's release of a purported ISIS video showing the
beheading of a Russian-speaking man. Putin is also repeating his charge that
Turkey's president is personally profiting from oil trade with ISIS. Turkey's
President Erdogan denies that.

As bad as things have appeared recently for the U.S. Secret Service, they're
actually worse, a new congressional report paints a picture of an agency
suffering from low morale, high attrition, a lack of funds and a lack of
leadership.

Chief legal correspondent Shannon Bream has the specifics tonight.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

REP. JASON CHAFFETZ (R), UTAH: The Secret Service is an agency in crisis.

SHANNON BREAM, FOX NEWS CHIEF LEGAL CORRESPONDENT: The Secret Service is an
agency in crisis. That's bottom line of a more than 400-page bipartisan report
from the House Oversight Committee. It details incidents involving violent
individuals, those with criminal pasts and impostors getting to within feet of
the President. Scandals involving prostitutes and agents on overseas assignment,
as well as accusations that intoxicated agents interfered with a crime scene
just outside White House grounds.

CHAFFETZ: Unfortunately we've kind of peeled it back and looked under the hood,
the more I've seen, the more I worry about the President's -- the President's
own safety and security. I really do.

BREAM: Congressman Elijah Cummings, the committee's top Democrat says he agrees
there's a lot of work to be done, but says he's seen improvement under Director
Joe Clancy's leadership.

REP. ELIJAH CUMMINGS (D), MARYLAND: I believe that they are capable. I think
they're at high alert. I think they have learned from the things that have
happened in the past.

BREAM: The report cites rampant mismanagement and critically low morale. Among
the scores of recommendations are better transparency about how misconduct is
handled and the suggestion that the next time the President chooses a director,
he look outside the agency.

White House press secretary Josh Earnest said today Clancy retains the
President's confidence.

EARNEST: Under the leadership of Director Clancy, the Secret Service has worked
hard to implement a series of reforms that have strengthened that organization
and have enhanced confidence in it.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

BREAM: The Secret Service says it is reviewing the report and that the agency
remains committed to improving and addressing its challenges -- Bret.

BAIER: Shannon, thank you.

South African Olympic star, Oscar Pistorius, has been convicted of murdering his
fashion model girlfriend, overturning his earlier conviction on a lesser charge.
The Supreme Court of Appeal says Pistorius fired the fatal shots into Reeva
Steenkamp with criminal intent. Pistorius is currently under house arrest. He
was released after serving one year of his five-year sentence for manslaughter.

Still ahead, Jeb Bush takes questions from George Will, Karen Tumulty and Steve
Hayes, plus me in our "Center Seat".

First an exclusive look at a new congressional investigation into Obamacare.

BAIER: New House Speaker Paul Ryan says he's not interested in playing nice with
President Obama. Today Ryan outlined an agenda he described as bold and pro
growth.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

REP. PAUL RYAN (R-WI), HOUSE SPEAKER: Our number one goal for next year is to
put together a complete alternative to the left's agenda. We are not here to
smooth things over. We are here to shake things up.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BAIER: Ryan says the federal government has grown arrogant, condescending and
quote "outright paternalistic".

House members have overwhelming approved a five-year, $305 billion
Transportation Spending Bill. It now goes to the Senate. The bill contains a
renewal of the charter for the controversial export/import bank. Also today
House leaders announced bipartisan legislation to tighten rules on a program
allowing citizens from 38 countries to enter the U.S. without a visa.

A new effort is under way to reveal how many of your tax dollars have been spent
on failing Obamacare state exchanges. And it comes as the President's health
care law is again under attack in Congress. Correspondent Rich Edson tonight is
following the money.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

RICH EDSON, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Obamacare spent about $2.5 billion
establishing health insurance cooperatives -- customer-owned nonprofits designed
to provide low-cost coverage. The Affordable Care Act funded 23, only one has
made money. 12 are closing. The government investment in the failed dozen --
about $1.2 billion.

Now the chairman of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations tells
Fox News his staff is probing the failures.

SEN. ROB PORTMAN (R), OHIO: Well, we're doing a thorough investigation into what
happened and why. Obviously, when you have the federal government involved with
start-ups at a time when the health care market is so unstable that's a
dangerous thing to do.

EDSON: The administration defends the co-ops, claiming they offer affordable
insurance.

DR. MANDY COHEN, CENTERS MEDICARE AND MEDICAID SERVICES: New entrants to any
market, especially the insurance market can face pressures, particularly in the
early stages. As with any new set of business ventures, some co-ops have
succeeded, while others have encountered more challenges.

EDSON: Beyond Republican-led investigations and repeal attempts, Obamacare faces
rising premiums and the nation's largest health insurer, United Health Care says
it is considering dropping out of the government insurance exchanges for 2017
because it is losing too much money. Conservatives charge the law is unraveling.

Premiums will keep going up. Plans will keep dropping out, people will keep
losing the coverage they depend on, the access to the doctors they want. And
that's not sustainable either economically or politically.

EDSON: The administration points to major insurers, like Aetna, Kaiser
Permanente and Cigna. They say they are still committed to the exchange.
Officials say Obamacare has disrupted the insurance market and claimed it is
successfully evolving into an improved expanded health insurance system.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

EDSON: Will also harming the law is a ban on government payments to insurance
companies that agree to cover sicker customers and lose money doing so.
Supporters say the payments -- part of a provision known as risk corridors --
prevent dramatic premium increases. Senator Marco Rubio pushed the federal
funding prohibition calling the risk corridors provision a bailout and is trying
to renew the ban -- Bret.

BAIER: Rich -- thank you.

Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen told Congress today economic conditions are
falling into place for a raising of interest rates in two weeks. "Wall Street"
was not happy with that or perhaps the jittery security here in the U.S. --
either way the Dow lost 252 today, the S&P 500 was off 30, the Nasdaq fell 86.

Former Vice President Dick Cheney returned to the capital today for the
unveiling of his official bust by sculptor William Behrends. In brief remarks,
Cheney said he hoped to be remembered as a believer in America. Vice President
Biden, the lone Democrat on hand, said he holds inordinate respect for Cheney,
even though he disagreed on most issues. And former President George W. Bush,
making a rare joint appearance with Cheney, said the latter always did what was
right for the nation and that he couldn't ask for a better vice president.

Republican presidential candidate Jeb Bush in our "Center Seat", next on SPECIAL
REPORT.

BAIER: We are pleased to welcome Republican presidential candidate Jeb Bush to
our Center Seat. Let's bring in our panel of questioners, syndicated columnist,
George Will, Karen Tumulty, national political correspondent for the "Washington
Post," and Steve Hayes, senior writer for "The Weekly Standard." Governor Bush,
thanks for being here.

JEB BUSH, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: It's a joy to be with you.

BAIER: Well, it's a sad couple of days obviously with the tragic events in San
Bernardino yesterday, and the obviously the FBI hasn't made their determination
exactly, officially what it is. It looks like the main suspect may have been
radicalized in some way. Yesterday as it was happening, President Obama said
this about the issue of gun control.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, (D) PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: For those who are concerned
about terrorism, some may be aware of the fact that we have a no- fly list where
people can't get on planes. But those same people we don't allow to fly could go
into a store right now in the United States and buy a firearm and there's
nothing that we can do to stop them.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BAIER: He's calling for legislation. You're thoughts on all of this and this
issue as it develops?

BUSH: Well, first of all, the first impulse I would have rather than talking
about gun control is to make sure that we protect the homeland. And last week
the metadata program was ended on November 30th. I think it ought to be
restored. There was apparently some tracking, if he was radicalized, there were
suspects that were being followed by the FBI.

And this is the job of the president. It isn't to turn every instance into a
need for taking rights away from people that are law-abiding citizens. We need
to protect the homeland. And I think every aspect of how we go about that while
we protect civil liberties in this country ought to be used.

BAIER: And when Hillary Clinton tweets out "I refuse to accept this as normal.
We must take action to stop gun violence now," What is your reaction? Should
something be done on the issue of guns? Put this issue aside.

BUSH: I don't think so. I don't think that there's a national federal government
solution to this. The issue of these mass violence, which is so tragic it really
breaks everyone's heart, ought to be, you know, the main thing that we've seen
up until now is mental illness. And we could do better probably identifying
people before they go completely out of control. But there's this impulse to
always solve a problem in Washington, D.C., typically ends up taking rights away
from law-abiding people.

BAIER: George?

GEORGE WILL, SYNDICATED COLUMNIST: Governor, you say we are at war with ISIS.
Yesterday the British parliament felt constrained to vote to authorize simply an
expansion of British strikes on ISIS. We've been striking ISIS now for 15 months
with no congressional authorization. If you were president, would you hesitate
before having, proceeding with force until Congress acted?

BUSH: I would seek congressional authority. I think the president does have the
authority. But I think you need to get people all in on this. We need to have a
budget. If it is a war of our times, then I think we need to be serious.

When President Obama presented this to the congress, and then he backed away, he
put all, all sorts of constraints on it rather than listening to the military
advisers. And not only that, the three Republican senators who are running for
president of the United States did not give him that authority. But I think the
next president should go and get this authority, lay out a clear strategy where
the United States leads to train local forces, to create, make sure that
everybody understands what the clear objective is and go at it and be successful
at it.

WILL: On a related matter. Two of your competitors are at daggers drawn over the
issue of Libya. The attack on Libya was administered by Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton, supported by Marco Rubio. Ted Cruz says it was a disaster.
Where do you come down on the U.S. intervention on Libya?

BUSH: The disaster was there wasn't a clear strategy to create security at the
end of this. That's the lesson learned over the last 15 years I think in the
Middle East is if we're going to be engaging and put men and women in harm's way
in uniform, we ought to have a strategy to create a peaceful solution at the
end.

WILL: Are U.S. interests in stake there?

BUSH: I don't know. Clearly, we've now made things worse by not having a
strategy to create -- we have chaos. We actually have ISIS now with a foothold
that's now undermining Tunisia.

So it appeared to me that this was -- this we were leading from behind. We were
providing support to our European allies without any thought given about the
overall strategy. So in reality I don't think it was the right approach. And
then bragging about it as Hillary Clinton did is pretty amazing.

BAIER: Karen?

KAREN TUMULTY, NATIONAL POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT, "WASHINGTON POST": As George
was saying, daggers drawn. What is your sense of the debate within your party
about America's role in the world? It used to be that Republicans you know, you
would pick the isolationists school or the internationalist school. Do you have
a sense that it is shifting as a result of this?

BUSH: I think it's a healthy debate to be honest with you. I think it's clear
that some candidates have thought it through, and one particular candidate
hadn't.

TUMULTY: And name?

BUSH: Donald Trump. No surprise. Trump has been all over the map. He's lacking a
seriousness on this subject and this is a serious matter. We're living in very
dangerous times and we need someone as president that actually has things
through in a proper way. So I welcome the debate. And the differences are
important to discuss for sure.

TUMULTY: What is he advocating that you consider unserious?

BUSH: Saying let Russia take out ISIS. Let ISIS take out Syria. Bomb the bleep
out of ISIS, all within three weeks' period. That is not serious. Admitting that
he gets his, of course we love the Sunday show here on FOX, admitting he gets
his foreign policy credentials from watching the Sunday shows? That's not
serious.

STEVE HAYES, SENIOR WRITER, "THE WEEKLY STANDARD": Getting specific on that
question, Ted Cruz said the other day that the United States doesn't have a dog
in this fight. Do we?

BUSH: I disagree with that.

HAYES: Who is our dog?

BUSH: The dog?

HAYES: Who is our dog in this fight?

BUSH: The threat of global terrorism is the threat for our country. And every
day that the caliphate exists is another day that they win and that they can
recruit terrorists. And the chaos in Syria is a grave national security threat
for our country.

HAYES: Do you think the United States has a moral obligation to intervene when
somebody like Bashar al Assad has used chemical weapons on his own people?

BUSH: Not necessarily. I think you also have to have a national security
imperative attached to it. We do, I think it's appropriate1 in foreign policy to
have a moral underpinning for sure. But it can't just be exclusively that.

In this case we have a caliphate the size of Indiana, 30,000 battle- tested,
well-financed terrorists who have declared war on us, and they're declaring war
on the thing we're most vulnerable on, our own freedom. And I think we have to
create a strategy because who else will do this? It's not going to be the French
or the Brits or the Germans, and it's certainly not going to be the Arab nations
unless the United States leads.

BAIER: More with Governor Jeb Bush in Center Seat after a quick break.

BAIER: Governor Jeb Bush is in our Center Seat tonight. Governor, a lot of
people tweeted in, Facebook messages, Instagram, questions for you. Fred writes
in "The results are in on Common Core and they are overwhelmingly negative. Why
do you continue to support it?"

BUSH: Well, first of all, the Congress is going to do something incredible.
They're going to actually pass a bill to present to the president of the United
States, the reauthorization of the No Child Left Behind Act which I helped work
on. And the net result of that is that the federal government cannot have direct
or indirect, any say in the creation of standards. And that's been my position
from the very beginning.

I support higher standards. And Common Core standards were higher than the
Florida standards that we had. They were implemented after I was governor, and
high standards with real accountability and school choice and a performance
based system of paying teachers will yield rising student achievement. My
passion is to make sure that every child has the God-given abilities to be able
to go to college or get a job, and right now about a third of our kids do.

BAIER: When you hear Fred and others, and I'm sure you hear it in town halls and
in the Republican Party, really concerned about this.

BUSH: They're concerned about federal involvement principally. They're deeply
concerned about federal overreach in education. And their voice was heard, and
the Congress will pass with bipartisan support a reauthorization of the federal
government's involvement in K-12 education that prohibits it. And I support
that.

HAYES: On the question of crony capitalism, you campaigned saying that you will
end crony capitalism if elected president. And yet you look at your biggest
donors, they're the Republicans who are responsible in large measure for
propagating crony capitalism here in Washington on K Street and elsewhere. If
you're elected, do you lock them out? How do you do this?

BUSH: Yes. They're supporting me because they see that I'm a leading, that I can
solve problems, that I have a proven record, unlike others that are running to
have nothing in their past that suggests that they could lead.

And so, absolutely, I'm proud of the fact that people are giving me money. And I
haven't changed my views about anything. I think we ought to phase out the sugar
subsidies. I think we ought to phase out the subsidies in the tax code for oil
and gas, for wind, for solar. We need to phase out the renewable fuel standard
over a period of time. All of these things I've been clear. I go to Iowa and say
these things. Look, I am who I am. And my compass points north, and the fact
that people are supporting me is a good sign, not a bad sign.

BAIER: George?

WILL: You have a plan you say for four percent growth, which would be
remarkable, and sustained four percent growth. Yet the next president may come
to office in the middle of a recession, we're really overdue for one after a
sputtering two percent recovery. How do you credibly say you can engineer four
percent growth?

BUSH: If you increase the economic activity by dramatic changes in how we create
rules first and foremost. The proposal we've laid out is to say that there
should be two years to be able to get a permit, not 10 years, that we're going
shift power back to the states wherever possible. We've treaded on the 10th
Amendment and trampled all over it. I think the EPA, the department of
education, department of transportation, as much of their programs, Medicaid,
all of things have to go back to the states.

We should embrace the energy revolution rather than trying to make it harder and
harder to create economic activity. We need to reform our tax code. If you
combine all of those things together, you're going to get closer to four percent
growth.

And George, let's just say I got it wrong. Maybe it's 3.75 percent growth. That
would be a phenomenal difference in this tepid new normal of two percent growth
that is trapping people in poverty and seeing $2,300 of disposable income lost
since Barack Obama has been inaugurated.

BAIER: Karen?

TUMULTY: If we could go back to topic A among Democrats now after San
Bernardino, gun control, what about the specific proposal that the president was
talking about in the tape that we saw earlier? Do you think that if somebody's
name is on a no-fly list that they should be able to get a gun?

BUSH: If that no-fly list is a concise list, yes, I think that that would be an
appropriate qualifier.

BAIER: We should point out that you're sitting next to someone who was on the
no-fly list.

HAYES: So I wouldn't be able to get a gun.

BUSH: No.

HAYES: There's no due process in me not being able to get a gun.

BUSH: I'm defending you, brother.

(LAUGHTER)

BUSH: My point is the no-fly list is not a concise list of people under
investigation or that may be for a short period of time. But if you, if you
narrow that down from that list to people that are, that are being investigated
in an active way, yes, that would be appropriate.

HAYES: You still don't have the due process on front end, right? By definition
if they're on the no fly list --

BUSH: That's why you would have to narrow it down to the point where it was
clearly, there's an active investigation or something like that.

But that's not going to be the answer. The answer is going to be that we have to
identify people before they come to the country or identify them if they're --
if they're communicating with known terrorists outside the country. And there's
ways to do that to protect civil liberties in this country and we need to get
back to that business.

BAIER: Governor, we always thought Steve was a little sketchy.

(LAUGHTER)

BAIER: Another round on politics with Governor Jeb Bush when we come back.

BAIER: We're back with our panel and Center Seat Governor Jeb Bush. Governor,
let's talk politics. The Real Clear Politics average of all the latest polls has
you at a 5.3 percent. That is 23 percent behind Donald Trump. You take a look at
the latest Iowa poll, you're at 5 percent there, 22 points behind Donald Trump.
I've asked you this question before as have many people about your place in the
polls. Take a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BUSH: I used to say it's a marathon, not a sprint. I think it's a triathlon.
It's a more arduous than a marathon. You've got to swim and ride a bike and run
at the same time. We've got a long way to go.

There is a long way to as always. There will be ups and downs, as always. Herman
Cain was the winner at this time when he was running.

What I meant was that Herman Cain was the frontrunner with close to 30 percent
of the vote, that measuring polls in October and November are completely
irrelevant.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BAIER: Well, today, in 2011, Herman Cain dropped out of the race. Even though he
was leading, he dropped out today in 2011. And here is what people are asking on
Twitter and elsewhere. MDH2 says "Governor Bush, at which point should
non-leading candidates get out and get behind leading non-Trump alternatives?"

BUSH: I think we need to let the process go forward, and that's exactly what I'm
doing. The pundits aren't going to decide who the party's nominee is going to
be. It's the people, for starters, in Iowa, and New Hampshire and South Carolina
and Nevada. And then a surge of, you know, primary states in March.

And I think people just need to be a little more patient about this. Let
democracy work. I am -- we are best ground game in Iowa and in New Hampshire.
I'm a patient person, and I believe that we are making good, steady progress.
And ultimately the decision is not going to be about who is the loudest voice,
who is the biggest personality, who can insult the person the best. It's who can
lead? Who has the proven record to make tough decisions during difficult times?

BAIER: If staying in means that the vote is split on the non-Trump candidate,
are you OK with Trump being the nominee for your party?

BUSH: Donald Trump will not be the nominee of this party. I feel totally
confident in the judgment of the voters, Republican primary voters.

BAIER: George?

WILL: Let's stay with Mr. Trump for a moment. It's almost impossible these days
for a Republican to get to 270 electoral votes without Florida, the most
important swing state. You know Florida very well. Is it conceivable Donald
Trump could carry Florida?

BUSH: If Hillary Clinton is indicted for, you know, for her email scandal or
something like that, perhaps. I think she is a weakened candidate. But you can't
insult your way to the presidency. You can't insult people with disabilities.
You can't insult people that are Latino. You can't insult women and expect that
you are going to win the presidency.

I had thought, perhaps, that he would have a second act, that as he garnered
this tremendous surge of support that he would actually turn into a serious
candidate, but there is no evidence is he a serious candidate.

WILL: Trump against a non-indicted Hillary then, Hillary wins?

BUSH: I'm afraid so.

BAIER: Karen?

TUMULTY: At what point do think -- you keep saying there is a long way to go. At
what point is there no longer a long way to go?

BUSH: February 1st would be the leading indicator because that's when the
caucuses start.

TUMULTY: You think this stays fluid right up until voting.

BUSH: Yes.

TUMULTY: Where do you think you would be right now in the polls in your name was
John Ellis and John Ellis Bush?

BUSH: You know what, it doesn't really matter. I'm blessed to be a Bush. I'm
blessed to be the brother of George W. and the son of George H. W. Bush. And I
am who I am. I have got my own record. I'm running about ideas about the future.
I'm totally comfortable with it.

TUMULTY: And you are convinced that people are actually hearing this as opposed
to sort of stopping it?

BUSH: Yes. And a lot of -- if you look at the polling that I have seen, a lot of
people actually like my brother and love my dad.

BAIER: Steve?

HAYES: A lot of talk about the drama between you and Marco Rubio and your
relationship with him in the past, and there have been reports that your -- the
super PAC supporting you is willing to be pretty tough on Rubio not just on
policy but going beyond policy. You don't control your super PAC. Where would
you draw the line? You can tell them today what's appropriate and what's not.

BUSH: Everybody will be -- everybody will have scrutiny. And that's fair game.
And that's exactly what I think everybody would want. And I'm not going predict
what the super PAC does. So far the ads that I have seen when I'm working out at
5:00 in the morning all look pretty good. They are touting me. They're tooting
my horn, which is what I like because I think people need to know what my record
is and what my views are about how to fight ISIS and those ads are pretty
effective.

HAYES: Did you say that working out at 5:00 in the morning thing to prove your
high energy?

(LAUGHTER)

HAYES: Is that a response to Trump?

BUSH: Donald has got his little slippers on and tea and ornate bathrobes. He is
calling into the shows at 5:00 in the morning. He is a hard working guy, too.

BAIER: We'll send the emails your way.

(LAUGHTER)

BAIER: What prospect of teaming up with others like John Kasich to go after
Donald Trump, which had been talked about in some analytical circles, much like
2004 against Howard Dean in Iowa that had effect. Do you think that that is
going to transpire over the next 58 days before February 1st?

BUSH: Look, my focus is getting my message out, the ideas that I have to create
higher growth and create a safe and secure America and talk about the leadership
skills that I have. We don't have vast resources to go beyond that, and to build
a ground game in these states where retail politics really matters.

BAIER: Governor, last time you here you said have me back, things will change.
You are back. And it's a couple months later.

BUSH: You invited me too early.

(LAUGHTER)

BAIER: It's about the same. What is happening in the GOP primary?

BUSH: You invited me too early. Trust me. I can sense it. When I campaign, our
crowds are bigger. The convert rates to our campaign are higher. People are
starting to get serious about this race. And this is not about electing the
biggest personality. This is about having a candidate that can beat Hillary
Clinton. And I believe you cannot beat Hillary Clinton without a proven,
conservative record that is a record that draws people towards our cause rather
than pushes them away, and that you have the skills to actually be president,
because this is a serious kind of time we are living in and you want someone who
has a steady hand, who has a backbone, who has a heart for people.

BAIER: Governor, thank you. Stay tuned if you will. That's it for the panel. But
we are going to see one presidential candidate knock someone's socks off on the
campaign trail.

BAIER: Finally tonight, President George H. W. Bush, known for colorful, unique
sock collections. So at a recent event in South Carolina with its junior Senator
Tim Scott, that was front of mind.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BUSH: I did notice you had my dad's socks on.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.

(LAUGHTER)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I was wondering how long it was going to take.

(LAUGHTER)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is my way of honoring the Bush family right here.

(LAUGHTER)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I picked up the habit a couple months ago.

BUSH: It worked out really well.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you.

(LAUGHTER)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm not quite sure what to say next, but I'll find something.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BAIER: There was an awkward pause there at the end. He didn't have anything
else.

BUSH: He's a great guy, by the way.

BAIER: Governor, thanks for being here today.

BUSH: You bet, thank you.

BAIER: Thanks for inviting us into your home tonight. That's it for this SPECIAL
REPORT, fair, balanced, and unafraid. Greta goes ON THE RECORD right now.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120301cb.254

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               35 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                           December 3, 2015 Thursday

          SHOW: FOX ON THE RECORD WITH GRETA VAN SUSTEREN 7:00 PM EST

Investigating Gunman's Possible Terror Ties; Christmas Party Massacre: 14 Dead,
21 Wounded; Chris Christie Goes On the Record; Latest on the San Bernardino
Shooting Investigation

BYLINE: Greta Van Susteren, Catherine Herridge, Trace Gallagher, Griff Jenkins

GUESTS: Whalid Phares, Carly Fiorina, Tom Ridge, Alan Frost, Amy Frost, Ted
Williams, Rudy Giuliani, Chris Christie

SECTION: NEWS; International

LENGTH: 7473  words


[19:00:05] GRETA VAN SUSTEREN, FOX NEWS HOST: Killers armed to the teeth, ready
to kill even more innocent Americans. The husband and wife duo, the evil murders
behind the San Bernardino massacre armed with an arsenal of weapons including
homemade bombs and thousands of rounds of ammunition. 14 innocent people gunned
down, slaughtered and another 21 innocent people wounded during the Christmas
party carnage.

Right now, the burning question, what was the killer pairs' motive? And are they
part of a terrorist group? Tonight, ON THE RECORD, the background of this killer
couple picked apart. No stone left unturned.

Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, former Homeland Security Secretary Tom
Ridge, 2016 presidential candidates Governor Chris Christie and Carly Fiorina,
they're all here.

But, first, ON THE RECORD has live team coverage on the ground, at the scene of
the massacre to the suspect's bomb-making home to Washington, D.C.

Now it all starts with "Fox News" correspondent Trace Gallagher, live in San
Bernardino.

Trace?

TRACE GALLAGER, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: And, Greta, you can see behind me that
30 hours after the shooting, the police presence here is still very strong. A
lot of the streets here are still shut down. Police will be in this position for
some time to come. We should note the big headline of the day comes from the
Associated Press saying reporting that Syed Farook did in fact have contact with
people.

The FBI is investigating for terrorism reasons. Apparently, they were using
social media to contact these people. The question is who were these groups? And
who were these people? We don't know that. And how deep did the contacts go?
Which makes it all the more important when they go to the house of the killers
today and start pulling out all of those electronics, Greta, because we are
talking about cell phone data.

We are talking about computers. If they can get some more information to help
connect the dots. The question the FBI has been wondering is if in fact, they
did have contact with these extremist groups. How deep did it go? Were there
some help in planning this? Was there help in maybe training or funding?

We know the FBI says this was a well-planned attack. The question was, was it
well-coordinated. And, if so, who was it coordinated by?

The cell phones have been taken out. They are now being examined by forensics.
We should know some time very soon exactly who these contacts were with. Police
have also found inside that house thousands of rounds of ammunition as well as
pipe bombs. More than a dozen pipe bombs and hundreds of tools. Tools to make
more pipe bombs.

In fact, there was so much explosive power. The FBI and the local police were
wondering if, in fact, the Christmas party was the target to begin with. Were
they planning an even bigger attack at some way?

But we have also understood, tonight, Greta, that a couple of weeks ago, there
was this dispute, apparently between one of the co-workers of Syed Farook and a
man who was a devout Christian. We are told they had a disagreement over whether
Islam was a peaceful religion or not. That co- worker was among those who were
killed inside the regional center. It was a heated argument. It was not part of
the argument that happened during the day of the shooting when Farook apparently
left the building and then came back with his wife and opened fire.

We can now tell you, Greta, that earlier today the police have ruled out that
third suspect. Last night, at this time, we were talking about a potential third
suspect. Now that person apparently has been ruled out. They believe this couple
did act alone. And, finally, we should note, Greta, that now all the names of
the victims of the dead have been released.

The families have been notified. The 15 people, they range in age from 20 years
old to 60 years old, five women, eight men. I know that's 13 and there were 14
-- I beg your pardon, 14 fatalities, we still don't know the gender of the last
one. The news conference comes up in about an hour and 15 minutes. We hope to
get more information then.

Greta?

VAN SUSTEREN: Trace, thank you. And just (INAUDIBLE) killed. One even had six
children.

But at this hour, the FBI is closing in on the motive for this vicious massacre.
Top of the list, the FBI is hunting for any ties between the killers neither
ISIS or al Qaeda. Have they found any?

"Fox News" chief intelligence correspondent Catherine Herridge joins me.

Catherine, have they found any?

CATHERINE HERRIDGE, FOX NEWS CHIEF INTELLIGENCE CORRESPONDENT: Well, one of the
central pieces of evidence that the FBI is looking at are these pipe bombs. The
pipe bombs use components from these remote controlled radio toy cars.

And this is a signature of the group al Qaeda in Yemen and their online magazine
"Inspire," which is kind of like a lifestyle journal for would-be Jihadist. It's
everything from how to live your life, be respectful to your faith and then also
how to build bombs.

So this is a data point that would lead us to al Qaeda.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right. We are looking at the new DMV photo by the way of one
of the killers of the man, obviously.

Catherine, is there any indication of ISIS, even on social media or anything
that has shown any support for this or contributed in any way?

[19:05:16] HERRIDGE: Right. Well, this has been a classic situation where ISIS
has been cheerleading for what has happened in California. And sort of
triumphing or revelling in the fact that so many Americans lost their lives.
But, significantly, there has been no claim of responsibility.

Just further on Trace's point, we actually independently confirmed here at Fox
that Syed Farook was in contact with individuals who were being investigated by
the FBI on terrorism issues. But our understanding is that he had contact with
this group after those FBI investigations had closed.

Was very reminiscent based on our reporting of the situation in Boston.
Remember, the elder Tsarnaev brother was looked at by the FBI. The case was
closed. And then it was after that he went overseas and came back and did the
attack.

VAN SUSTEREN: I will tell you what was peculiar. I was listening to a police
scanner right after it broke yesterday afternoon. And I heard one person say,
one police officer say to another we have a tip and they said the name was Syed.

And I just sort of dismissed it, except that I told somebody in New York,
they're looking for someone named Syed. Never heard anything more. So they knew
about this guy as a possibility, very early on, unless there is more that than
one Syed.

HERRIDGE: Right. They had a tip from someone who was -- one of his co- workers
who saw him and survived and identified the name. That's what went out over the
scanner. The original name was not Syed Farook. There were two other names that
were attached to it at that time.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right, money. Where did they get the money for this, because
--

(CROSSTALK)

HERRIDGE: You know, that's a great question. I don't know where the money came
from. But they had to have significant cash to buy the ammunition, get the
weapons and then to make these bombs.

I want to emphasize the number of pipe bombs they found really speaks to someone
who has experience with explosives and is good enough that they're not having
accidents to get found out. So that's another important data point here. They
are going to find out in the scrubbing of these electronics that are being
brought to the FBI lab here in Quantico, Virginia. So the cells, the computers,
the thumb drives. What their pattern was on the Web. They're probably going to
be able to pull up bank records from that as well.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right, well, we are just getting to "Fox News" a copy of the
marriage certificate. They were married on August 4th, 2014.

HERRIDGE: Yes. As soon as they met in Saudi Arabia, they were there for nine
days. They returned to the United States. They had 90 days to get married and
they made it official once they were here.

VAN SUSTEREN: And, of course, Saudi Arabia raises a red flag for all of us.
Anyway, Catherine, thank you.

HERRIDGE: You are welcome.

VAN SUSTEREN: This bloody massacre carried out during a Christmas party in a
crowded business complex. Hundreds of employees, innocent people inside that
building when this carnage began.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: My daughter is in there. She texted us about 30 minutes ago
and said that there was a shooter. She thought he shot 10 to 20 people.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She said the guy she saw came in next to her office, and I
guess started shooting. They locked themselves in her office. They see bodies on
the floor and she said right now ambulance are taking people out.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The alarms went off and they were all called to hunker down
and hide and shelter in place. And she said then eventually the police came by
and took them out. Never heard any gunshots or anything.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Outside, boom, boom, boom. And she was quite and all of a
sudden, boom.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

VAN SUSTEREN: ON THE RECORD is live on the ground investigating this horrific
and evil rampage.

Griff Jenkins has been pounding the pavement, speaking to people who knew the
suspected killers.

Griff?

GRIFF JENKINS, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Greta. Much of the activity today
surrounding the condominium owned by Syed Farook, his wife, where his daughter
and mother-in-law lived as well. And no one was more shocked to find out that
there were a dozen pipe bombs and an arsenal of ammo and weapons in that
condominium than their immediate next door neighbors Alan and Amy Frost. Take a
look.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

JENKINS: How close to you were they?

AMY FROST, NEIGHBOR OF SYED FAROOK: We share walls.

JENKINS: You share walls?

ALAN FROST, NEIGHBOR OF SYED FAROOK: Yes.

AMY FROST: Share walls.

JENKINS: When you heard the news, when you saw on the news who this was, or I
guess maybe you found out first when the S.W.A.T. teams and the police came in.
Walk us through that, will you?

ALAN FROST: Well, for me, the first indication that I had of how close it was my
wife called me when I was at work. And so saying that she was going over to a
friend's house because they were going to be investigating our neighbor. So, for
me, that was my first indication of that our neighbor was a suspect.

AMY FROST: I was home watching the news, and I received a text from a neighbor
down the way in the complex. Her husband found out from a police officer that
was at the end of her driveway, the entrance into the complex. And he said that
the police are going to raid the house that they are living in. And she said I
need to get out of the house right now.

[19:10:04] JENKINS: They found makeshift bombs.

AMY FROST: That's what I understand. I didn't speak to the agents about that,
but that's what I heard

JENKINS: That has to terrify you?

AMY FROST: Absolutely. Who wouldn't be, right?

ALAN FROST: It is right next door. For us, literally, on the other side of the
wall. And so it is disturbing to think about that.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

JENKINS: And we are learning a little more about who Fareed -- Syed Farook was.
Remember, he was a health inspector here in San Bernardino County. And we talked
to a restaurant owner, Kasha Shahabi, who was once inspected by him.

Take a look.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

KASHA SHAHABI, RESTAURANT OWNER: This morning I was going through my emails and
going through emails and I finally found it and it was him sending me an email
and I saw his name and it freaked me out.

What stands out about him was he seemed disconnected. Didn't really care too
much about what he does. And what I mean by that was didn't have a lot to
rapport.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

JENKINS: And we are joined by Ted Williams, our own Ted Williams, a former
federal agent. A homicide detective.

Ted, you've been talking to cops on the ground. What are your first impressions?

TED WILLIAMS, CRIMINAL DEFENSE ATTORNEY: Well, my first impressions are law
enforcement officers are shocked by this division as to whether this was a
terrorist act or whether this was work-place related. They believe it was a
terrorist act, Griff.

JENKINS: Greta?

VAN SUSTEREN: Ted, as you are out there and you're talking to the police
officers, I mean, you have to admit that this was an amazing response and that
no one else was killed is absolutely extraordinary. I got to tip my hat to these
police officers.

WILLIAMS: Yes, Greta. You are absolutely right. The men and women of law
enforcement out here have done an exemplary job. They went in. You got to
understand, when this thing first broke, there was a great deal of confusion.
They were out there on the highway. They were in the middle of a shootout. They
went -- they served and protected this community very well. They even went in to
that apartment. There was booby traps in the car. They were dealing with a lot
of question marks out here and they did an exemplary job, Greta.

VAN SUSTEREN: And this is not to lay the blame on anybody. But, if you see
something, say something. I mean, certainly if someone is buying all the
ingredients to make this bomb factory at home, you know, someone must have been
suspicious. And everyone is always afraid to speak up.

JENKINS: You know, Greta, if I could actually just jump in, though, that couple
lived -- they were separated from that condominium only by a wall. And I pressed
them on and off camera on whether or not they knew something was going on to
have so much material. And they said honestly no.

VAN SUSTEREN: They may not be the ones, though, Griff, but somebody sold them
the stuff. You know, it's like, I mean, I don't know how much is in there but it
sounds like it's a virtual bomb factory and they did go to a store unless they
went every day at a different store for the last, you know, eight months, I
don't know. But, you know, they must have been suspicious.

(CROSSTALK)

WILLIAMS: You're absolutely right. I think when you look at the proportion of
the amount of ammunition, the amount of bomb-making material, the federal
authorities are going to have to backtrack. They're going to look at some of the
bomb-making material. Hopefully, they're going to find fingerprints, they're
going to find forensics on this material that's not either Farook or Malik.

VAN SUSTEREN: Thank you both. Griff, Ted, thank you. And the violence and bloody
shootout with police that ended the carnage and killed the suspect is all played
out on police radio.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE OFFICER: Looks like male with dark shirt, blue jeans running
eastbound through the parking lot.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE OFFICER: We are in pursuit of the suspect vehicle eastbound on
San Bernardino Avenue from Richardson. We've got shots fired out the back
window.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE OFFICER: Looks like we have one in custody.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE OFFICER: Copy, one in custody.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE OFFICER: East San Bernardino, multiple shots fired.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE DISPATCH: Eastbound San Bernardino, multiple shots fired.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE OFFICER: We need a Bearcat.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE DISPATCH: Copy. 1795 East San Bernardino Avenue.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE OFFICER: We need medical aid.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE DISPATCH: Copy. We are getting them started.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE OFFICER: We are at San Bernardino and Shedden. San Bernardino
and Shedden. There's one guy down. There's one guy in the back of a car. And we
need that Bearcat.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE DISPATCH: Copy. Bearcat is on the way.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE OFFICER: Right now, we have one down outside the car. One down
inside the car. Well, we don't know. Hold on. I meant from what we understand
that one is on the run.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE OFFICER: We need medical aid.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

VAN SUSTEREN: Well, it's no secret, many Americans are frightened. They do fear
an attack just like this one in their town. So what should we do? What can we
do?

Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani goes ON THE RECORD.

Good evening, sir.

RUDY GIULIANI, FORMER NEW YORK CITY MAYOR: Good evening, Greta. How are you?

VAN SUSTEREN: I'm very well. Well, it's no secret everyone is suspicious that
this is radical Islam. He was born in the United States. But he was -- he
traveled to Saudi Arabia. But he had had a fight previously, not in the day
before or the day of with one of the people that was killed about whether Islam
was a peaceful religion or not. I guess the killer certainly answered that one
for himself.

[19:15:16] GIULIANI: Well, you know, first of all, we've got to divide this into
two stages. I find the first one completely incredible that the FBI has trouble
describing this as a terrorist act.

Whether it's work-related or Muslim-related, Muslim-extremist-related or
insanity-related, this is a terrorist act. You kill 17 people with the kind of
ammunition these people had, the kind of ammunition they had stored up in their
ammunitions factory, which was basically their home, this was a terrorist act.
So why are we afraid to say that? What's wrong with us?

If we don't face this and deal with it honestly, if we don't have the courage to
deal with this honestly, we are never going to be able to figure this out.

Secondly, is it Islamic-related? That's a little bit more difficult to question.
But all the circumstantial evidence points that way, Greta. I mean, here's a guy
who goes and gets a bride from Saudi Arabia -- Pakistan, right? He's an
American. He goes and gets a bride from there. He comes back. He has put
together basically an arsenal in order to do massive attacks.

I mean, luckily, he got killed during the first attack. This guy was ready for
four or five, six attacks. So it kind of sends me in the direction of I wouldn't
definitively say at this point it was Islamic terrorist attack, but it sure
pointing in that direction.

But to have the FBI guy today, not be able to say this was a terror attack and I
have worked with the FBI all my life, as a U.S. attorney, associate attorney
general, man, I found -- as the U.S. attorney, I had gone on television and
contradicted him and said, you are damn right this is a terrorist attack. Now
let's figure out if it is Islamic or not.

(CROSSTALK)

VAN SUSTEREN: You know what, I know nobody wants to say that it's radical
Islamic attack. But let's face it, it would be unreasonable not to be suspicious
that it is.

GIULIANI: Of course, it would be.

VAN SUSTEREN: In light of what -- I mean, that would be unreasonable. And we
will all wait to see what the facts are, but it would be unreasonable not to be
suspicious of that tonight.

GIULIANI: If you were working for me, when I was U.S. attorney as an agent or as
an assistant U.S. attorney, and you didn't have that as a hypothesis, I would
fire you. You would be fired because you would be, you would be too stupid to
work for me.

VAN SUSTEREN: And, tonight, I assume that the FBI is combing his computer. But
one of the problems are when he -- is that his co-conspirators, co- killer was
his wife. So it's not like they are going to have computer messages between the
two of them.

GIULIANI: Well, here is a guy who is an American citizen, right? And he goes
online and picks a wife in Saudi Arabia -- Pakistan. What does that have to tell
you?

Also, there was a neighbor that I saw reported somewhere way down in the "Los
Angeles Times" article today, who said that they saw the couple in the garage, a
suspicious number of times in the weeks leading up to the attack, but they were
afraid to report it.

Now I would like you to go find that neighbor. I would go find that neighbor if
I was investigating this case, because you know what that tells me political
correctness is winning and reality is losing. If that neighbor was afraid to go
report that to the police, then --

(CROSSTALK)

VAN SUSTEREN: And that neighbor -- and I have read that story and the neighbor
was afraid that the neighbor would be called a racist so the neighbor didn't
want to, but I got to go.

GIULIANI: If the neighbor had reported it, you might have gotten a search
warrant and you might have been able to prevent this. And I can give you four
cases in New York, we prevented that way. And that's why not calling them
Islamic terrorists and the president refusing to do that is imposing a political
correctness on us that is dangerous. It's dangerous.

VAN SUSTEREN: Mayor, I got to go. Mayor, I got to go.

GIULIANI: Thank you.

VAN SUSTEREN: Thank you, sir. And outrage is growing instead of hammering mass
murderers one newspaper attacks Republicans asking Americans to pray.

Governor Chris Christie is firing back. His response, you have to hear it
straight ahead.

Plus, we have new information about the suspect and their possible ties to
terrorism. ON THE RECORD live coverage, coming up.

[19:22:48] VAN SUSTEREN: Breaking right now, ON THE RECORD is monitoring the
investigation in the San Bernardino massacre. And we are awaiting a news
conference from law enforcement. And as soon as it starts, we're going to take
you back there live.

And, today, New Jersey Governor Chris Christie saying, quote, "We are in the
midst of a world war."

The governor's harsh words coming in the wake of the San Bernardino massacre. So
what did he mean by that?

Just a short time ago, New Jersey governor and 2016 presidential candidate
Governor Chris Christie went ON THE RECORD.

Governor, nice to see you and welcome to Washington.

GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE, (R-NJ) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Happy to be here.

VAN SUSTEREN: This is one of my favorite views. It's of the United States
capitol and our government is -- one of the jobs is to keep the Americans safe.
Yesterday in California, terrible crisis, evil.

How would you keep America safe?

CHRISTIE: First off, we got to enhance our intelligence capability, Greta. Not
degrade it, as we have done through hurting the NSA, hurting the morale of our
intelligence community. We used to support law enforcement and give them the
tools they need to intervene before these kinds of attacks happen and we need to
strengthen our military. All three of those things need to be done and needs to
be done right away.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right. Everyone suspects that this is terrorists. I mean, that
this is al Qaeda or ISIS. There's been cheerleading on the internet from ISIS.
Would you step up things against ISIS?

CHRISTIE: Oh, you have to. And, listen, the fact, Greta, is that as soon as I
started watching the coverage of these attacks, you knew that was not work place
violence. You don't go home and grab the wife and get on the tactical gear and
the semiautomatic weapons to come and settle a dispute at work. That was a
planned terrorist attack. It's another intelligence failure.

And what it will tell you is we have to go after ISIS both here at home and
around the world because what's happening is every target in America is now
going to be a target. If a developmental center in San Bernardino is a target,
any place in America is now a target.

VAN SUSTEREN: But how do you prevent two people who whether the radicalized or
whatever, they create a bomb factory in their house and they take the guns in
and they just go shooting up of any place?

CHRISTIE: Well, you have to increase your intelligence capability around the
country, Greta. We haven't done that. That doesn't mean you are going to prevent
everything.

We are a free, open society. And we're not going to be able to prevent every bad
thing from happening. But the greater our intelligence capability is, the better
chance we have of connecting those dots before it happens. These folks, maybe we
could have intervened.

We don't know. We'll still find out the facts. But we know that we degraded our
intelligence capability because of the action of this president and some members
in Congress, on the Republican side as well, and they all need to answer for
that.

[19:25:19] VAN SUSTEREN: All right, what do you assign responsibility for the
president on this?

CHRISTIE: Well, because, on the failure of intelligence in general, by signing
the bill that's taken away from the NSA the metadata capability and by the
things that he and the Democrat from the Senate have said that killed the morale
of our intelligence community.

VAN SUSTEREN: But that metadata still collected by the telephone companies and
you just have to go get a warrant to get (INAUDIBLE) emergency, then the
government doesn't even need a warrant.

CHRISTIE: Yes, but you know what, we are counting on and, Greta, I've been a
federal prosecutor. We serve a subpoena on the phone companies. They don't
respond right away. And there is no guarantee in the laws that's passed that
they have to keep that data. So it's not nearly as available to us and it's
certainly not available on a real-time basis.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right. This "New York Daily News" cover has horrified many
people. Your thoughts about it tonight.

CHRISTIE: It's reprehensible. It's absolutely reprehensible. And the daily news
for their own liberal, you know, pursuits of trying to eliminate the Second
Amendment, want to put that kind of cover on and degrade the power of prayer.
I'm sorry, the power of prayer is still the most powerful thing in the world.

VAN SUSTEREN: But you know what struck me is that on day one or day two,
however, you want to count this is rather on attacking the killers and splashing
having and splashing their faces up here or splashing, you know, what they have
done up here is that they attack a third party. They go after agenda.

CHRISTIE: Yes. Well, listen, that's the relentlessness of the liberal agenda in
this country is displayed by that cover.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right. Too politically correct in this country? Because, you
know, a lot of people are very suspicious about what happened yesterday. We are
still getting the facts and the facts, of course, could be developed much
differently than what we are all suspecting. But, you know, we all suspect it
from day one, from yesterday that this was ISIS, al Qaeda terrorism.

CHRISTIE: Yes, listen, the fact is it's folks like the president and Hillary
Clinton who won't use the phrase radical Islam.

VAN SUSTEREN: Why won't they?

CHRISTIE: I think they think somehow it makes them look more kind when, in fact,
I think it just confuses the matter more. You know what? Our problem is not with
Islam. It's with radical Islam. You know, peaceful Muslims, they understand.
They understand just as well as anybody that the radicalization of their
religion is dangerous and it hurts people, including them.

VAN SUSTEREN: Governor, nice to see you and welcome to Washington.

CHRISTIE: Happy to be back, Greta. Thanks for having me.

VAN SUSTEREN: And right now, we are learning one of San Bernardino's suspects
killed in the shootout traveled overseas. You won't be surprised where. We are
live in San Bernardino -- next.

GRETA VAN SUSTEREN, ON THE RECORD HOST: This is a Fox News alert, heavily armed
and on a mission. The husband and wife pair, the suspects behind the San
Bernardino massacre was armed to the teeth and ready for a battle. Investigation
in to what caused them to slaughter 14 innocent people and hurting so many more,
then now turning up clues that may point to terror. Fox News Correspondent Adam
Housley is live near the suspect's house in Redlands, California. Adam, it
clearly is terror, the question is whether they are connected to anybody

ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: You know it's interesting, Greta, you just
mentioned. I just got off the phone with one investigator and talked to others
in this last half hour. The folks on the ground do any investigation both
federal and local level will tell you as far as they are concerned this is
terrorism. The problem they believe is coming from much higher level in
Washington, telling their -- basically their bosses not to go path until it's
completely 100 percent in this very narrow definition defined. So they are
frustrated by that, because they want to be able to say that.

At the meantime, obviously, their number one priority is to continue with the
investigation itself. Behind me at this home in Redlands, the federal FBI team
has left with their forensic vehicle that they use. They there is still a couple
of agents here as you might imagine. The apartment has quite a crime scene. But
the actual team itself with the forensic vehicle left, that was recently. I have
also been told by the FBI tonight that there is actually a home in Corona right
now, Corona, California, not far from here where they are -- they will not call
it a raid, and they're basically saying they are checking out the home and
ensuring that there is no security situation there.

That's as far as they will go. They won't give us -- or call it a raid. You can
see the actual apartment here which was a raid that took a long time to go
through. There is still people inside from the FBI, the forensic team as I
mentioned pulled out of here recently, Greta. You can see where that window was
basically knocked out. This is where they found a lot of those devices --
factory or facility where they had the pipe bombs and they had the explosives
also attached to the cars, the motorized cars, Greta. This investigation
continuing in a number of locations, spreading out not only here nationally but
also across the country as well with as internationally, Greta.

VAN SUSTEREN: Adam, thank you.

And investigators are now pouring over the lives of two suspected murderers in
the San Bernardino massacre. They are looking for a motive. A short time ago,
police telling us what they found inside the suspect's home.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE: There were 12 pipe bomb-type devices
found in that house. There were also hundreds of tools, many of which could be
used to construct IED's pipe bombs. And, in addition to that, they had other
material to have produced some additional bombs as well.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAN SUSTEREN: Does this level of planning point to an act of terror. Fox News
terrorism expert Whalid Phares is here. Whalid, I know everyone wants to try to
be careful. I will go out on a limb. This is terrorism without any doubt in my
mind. The question is whether this is a freelance copycat that they got
radicalized and did this all themselves, or whether they are in any way part of
a group, which is also another form of terrorism that they were encouraged or
inspired or even paid for or had some help. Either way you look at it. This is
terrorism. This isn't work place where you have a grudge with your boss. You
don't go out and get your wife and come back and shoot 14 people.

WHALID PHARES, TERRORISM EXPERT: Absolutely. This is exactly where most of the
expert community is right now. The government is behind trying to build the case
little by little, piece by piece. There are three major areas. Number one, the
actual operation itself, the fact that they had all this equipment, the way they
executed.

VAN SUSTEREN: They had a bomb back here at home.

PHARES: They had all the features that a regular cell of terror in Iraq or Syria
would do. More than that, who trained them? They were trained by somebody.
Somebody oversaw that training. Element number two, the wife would leave her
baby to go perform that kind of activity? We have seen it in the Middle East.

VAN SUSTEREN: Some mother.

PHARES: This is the style of the Black Widows that attacked Russia in the past,
and we have seen those cases in Iraq and Syria. There is another component. The
environment, the tweets coming from ISIS, they did not come when there were
shooters in our high schools. You saw only those tweets when there was an action
by Jihadists or presumed Jihadists. Thirdly, you have what these two persons
have done in the past, traveling and who are they following on twitter? This is
something the government definitely has to have information about it.

VAN SUSTEREN: You know it's sort of the metadata collection which is they are
doing right now to see who they spoke to, where they were on their computer, one
of the disadvantages are these two are living in the same house, talking to each
other. It's not like its one terrorist talking to another terrorist across state
lines or something -- that we would have, you know, across town, so you would
have phone records. I mean, there is somewhat of a limitation. But you are
right, they had had to learn it some place. The internet is a rich place to get
all sorts of information. And you get really ugly information, even how to build
a bomb.

PHARES: Absolutely. You have the actual internet. And I am sure not just the
government everybody else in the private sector is going after that now. But
what the government has in their own hands is the laptop or the computer. This
is everything. I mean, if there is an email it will be there.

VAN SUSTEREN: The sadness is we are going to find this out and get this
information. The problem is it's after the 14 are dead. It's after the 20-some
are injured and shot, 14 dead. One of the people died is a 37- year-old man,
married and six children. It's horrible that we are learning this after the
fact. We need to be ahead of the game.

PHARES: Absolutely ahead of the game. That's how we are conducting counter
terrorism operation. This is a question of policy. I think the administration is
not just careful, it doesn't want to -- the direction to be in that field of
Jehadism unless it's given all the information.

VAN SUSTEREN: And that's the rough thing is that we don't know about this until
after the fact. I would rather stop this than have a good investigation, Whalid,
thank you.

PHARES: Thank you.

VAN SUSTEREN: You heard Governor Chris Christie's response to how he would keep
this country safe. So what does Carly Fiorina, also a candidate for President
have to say about the evil mass murder in California? Carly Fiorina goes On the
Record next.

Plus, we have more of the breaking news. More information about the suspect in
this mass shooting and possible ties to terrorism. More live coverage coming up.

VAN SUSTEREN: Breaking right now, On the Record is monitoring the investigation
into the San Bernardino massacre. We are awaiting a news conference from law
enforcement. As soon as it starts, we're going to take you right to it.

Growing outrage over the controversial front page of the New York Daily News,
The paper mocking the tweets of Republican Presidential candidates, asking for
prayers in light of the mass murders in California, now the paper displaying
many of the candidates' tweets with giant headline, God isn't fixing this.
Former CEO of Hewlett Packard and 2016 GOP presidential candidate Carly Fiorina
goes On the Record. And welcome to D.C., I know you have been in Iowa, New
Hampshire, and every place else. So welcome.

CARLY FIORINA, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Thank you so much. Thanks for having me.

VAN SUSTEREN: What do you make of this New York Daily News page?

FIORINA: We have to take our country back. We have to restore the character of
our nation. I mean, honestly, this is unbelievable. When you read the article,
it goes on to say that the people who pray for our victims and our first
responders are part of the problem. It's just outrageous. The same paper said
that I was the problem behind the Planned Parenthood shooting, because I have
exposed the truth about what Planned Parenthood does. This is what the left wing
does. It's outrageous.

VAN SUSTEREN: At the very least, on day one they ought to be looking at the
killers.

FIORINA: Hillary Clinton, remember, when she was asked about enemy she is proud
of, who was first on her list, Republicans.

VAN SUSTEREN: I thought she was being flip. I actually thought...

FIORINA: They think the enemy conservatives and Republicans who might pray after
a terrorist attack.

VAN SUSTEREN: I don't think they were being flip.

(CROSSTALK)

VAN SUSTEREN: I thought the New York Daily News was not being flipped. All
right, what would you do? I mean we have had all these shootings, we have had
Colorado, and we had many other shootings and Sandy Hook. We had a lot of mass
shootings in this country.

FIORINA: Let us begin by enforcing the laws we have. We have a whole list of
criminals who are not supposed to own firearms, and we know they do.

(CROSSTALK)

FIORINA: Here we have a situation unclear, but for heaven's sake. They are
building bombs in their home. They had been inspected for possible ties to
terrorists earlier. It sounds a lot like the Tsarnaev Brothers case, where we
actually knew something was wrong, somebody investigated them at some point, but
didn't really do anything about it. This is why I think our FBI Director said a
couple weeks ago, even before the Paris attacks that the FBI was, "Overwhelmed
by the number of possible terrorists already in this country. They couldn't keep
up." And, yet, President Obama says that any of us who say that maybe we should
be letting more would be terrorists in if we cannot vet refugees, for example,
he says we're providing a recruitment tool to the terrorists.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right. One other thing that -- circle back on that is I think
we have to stop being afraid of being called racist. Apparently, if you see
something, you should say something and apparently one woman did see the bomb
factory or see something suspicious and didn't say anything, which I can
understand. But the problem is we do have to step up and not be afraid if we see
something.

FIORINA: This is the cost of people being shouted down because they express an
opinion that the left wing doesn't like. People stop talking, and we cannot stop
talking, we can't stop speaking the truth. And we can't stop saying something if
we see something. But that's the cost, if people demonize the messenger because
they don't like the message.

VAN SUSTEREN: If you see someone buying five pressure cookers, say something.
All right, you have a new blue print, your first year in office, and you have
got a whole list you're going to do. What's top of the list?

FIORINA: I have laid out six things that I think are vital to get done early on
in the first term of my administration, to take our country back. It involves
defeating ISIS, and leading once again in the world. It involves restoring the
character of our nation by standing for life and religious liberty. It involves
enforcing a pro-American immigration system. It involves rolling back the worst
aspects of crony capitalism of which Obamacare is number one. It involves most
importantly getting to zero based budgeting so we can examine every dollar, cut
any dollar, move any dollar, and taking that 73,000 page tax code down to three
pages.

VAN SUSTEREN: Just to add, the zero based budgeting is if we can figure out how
to get rid of some of this waste and fraud in the government we can pay for more
law enforcement or some of the other things.

FIORINA: Absolutely. It's also true that we have more IRS personnel today
because of that 73,000 page tax code than we do CIA and FBI combined, does that
strike you as a misallocation of resources? I think so.

VAN SUSTEREN: Don't get me started, anyway, Carly Fiorina, welcome to
Washington, nice to see you.

FIORINA: Thank you. Thanks for having me, Greta.

VAN SUSTEREN: Look at this. These are the faces of evil, the suspects in the San
Bernardino massacre, more on the investigation next.

VAN SUSTEREN: The San Bernardino massacre coming as Americans are increasingly
on edge in fear of terror attacks. A new Quinnipiac University national poll
taken before yesterday's slaughter finding that 83 percent of voters say a
terrorist attack, killing numerous Americans is likely. That same poll finding
61 percent of voters say the U.S. government's anti-terror policies have not
gone far enough. Former Pennsylvania Governor and former Secretary of Homeland
Security Governor Tom Ridge goes On the Record, nice to see you, sir.

TOM RIDGE, FORMER PENNSYLVANIA GOVERNOR: Nice to be with you.

VAN SUSTEREN: So 61 percent of the population thinks President Obama's
antiterrorism policies not gone far enough. Are you in that 61 percent?

RIDGE: Absolutely. Plug me in. In order to combat an enemy you have to recognize
it as such. We know for the past seven years he has struggled with the term
global war on terror let alone Islamic fundamentalist. So yes, I think they're
right. And I think there is an offensive way to deal with terrorism and a
defensive way. I think America should be -- should understand that there are
hundreds of thousands of men and women go to work every day trying to keep
America more secure from a defense point of view. There are gaps. There always
will be because democracies are soft targets by definition. But I think we need
far more aggressive overseas.

VAN SUSTEREN: There are two people sitting in a garage tonight building a bomb
with legal materials tonight. What are you supposed to do? How is the government
supposed to stop that if it's homegrown radical anything?

RIDGE: I think that that embrace that notion and understand completely that not
every attack is an intelligence failure, not every attack is a condemnation of
the men and women who try to keep us safe. We need to accept the reality of the
21st century, one, America is doing everything we can to keep our streets and
communities safe, but that intelligence does have limits.

VAN SUSTEREN: You know what? It may not be an intelligence failure but in every
single one of these attacks when we go back and reengineer what the person's
life was like, we find out buying five pressure cookers at the store and the
store owner thinks well I did think it was a little weird. People are not
speaking up enough for weird things they are afraid that they will be called
racist or afraid to be called some sort of some horrible bigot.

RIDGE: Greta, you are on to something is. We are asking people to be little bit
of their own environment. Democracies are soft targets. If you see something
unusual or out of the ordinary, a neighbor saw several people congregating at
night, loud noises, whatever, if nothing else a nuisance, more information that
needs to be generated before a final conclusion can be reached. I personally
think this is a terrorist attack. I understand that the FBI has a specific
definition. They are trying to plug all the information in. This is a terrorist
attack. I do think we understand cold hard reality that there are limits to our
ability to keep everybody safe, everywhere, all the time.

VAN SUSTEREN: Well, according to that poll taken before yesterday, 83 percent
think it was likely we were going to get a terror attack with lots of
casualties. I guess 17 percent who didn't think are thinking differently
tonight.

RIDGE: You never diminish, Greta, the savagery, the horror and the terror around
an attack. But I do want to I -- I am very careful when I say this. We need to
put it in perspective. This year 10,000 people die because they drank too much.
They'll be probably 15 or 20,000 homicides. We do have a tendency to kill
ourselves. So the threat of terrorism in these fundamentalists is real, it's
severe, it's horrific. We got a great country. Most people doing everything they
possibly can to deal with it. We just have to accept that reality and maybe --
highlighted it a few moments ago, be a little bit more of aware of your
surroundings. Call to got on the Muslim community to pay more attention what's
going on in their communities. It seems that the ideology at its roots in
Islamic fundamentalism.

VAN SUSTEREN: Governor, nice to see you.

RIDGE: My pleasure.

VAN SUSTEREN: And coming up, there is a new leader to admire, I will tell you
who, off-the-record.

VAN SUSTEREN: Let's go of off-the-record. Yes, I know, I sound like a broken
record talking about the police, but I must again tonight. I want to go on the
record noting my appreciation and admiration for law enforcement. Yesterday's
job by the law enforcement in San Bernardino was something we should all be
proud of. The call went out, a shooting and more than 300 law enforcement
officers immediately responding, running toward danger, not away, and as our
hearts bleed for the 14 massacred victims and their families and friends. It was
law enforcement risking their lives, which stopped the killers before the
killers could kill more by gun or with their bomb-making factory at home.

And I am not the only one who is proud of law enforcement.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BURGUAN: I will tell you as the chief of this agency, I am incredibly proud of
the way our folks responded, not only the response here help and regional
partners, but the way they engaged in that officer involved shooting. That was
nothing short of heroic, and extremely proud of the way that they handled that.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAN SUSTEREN: And while the chief won't say it himself, I will. He also needs to
take a bow. You don't have law enforcement like San Bernardino without a great
leader, that's the chief. And that's my off-the-record comment tonight. Thanks
for being with us. We'll see you again tomorrow night at 7:00 p.m. and stay with
Fox News for all the late news.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120301cb.260

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               36 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                           December 3, 2015 Thursday

                     SHOW: THE O'REILLY FACTOR 8:00 PM EST

More Americans Die at the Hands of Muslim Extremists; San Bernardino Attack;
Interview with Donald Trump

BYLINE: Bill O'Reilly, Dana Perino

GUESTS: Jim Hanson, Aaron Cohen, Donald Trump

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 7416  words


BILL O'REILLY, FOX NEWS HOST: THE O'REILLY FACTOR is on. Tonight:

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Close the gate. Close the gate. We have gunshots. We have
gunshots.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: East San Bernardino -- multiple shots fired. We need a
bearcat. We need medical aid.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: More Americans die at the hands of Muslim extremists. THE FACTOR is
investigating this horrific act of violence in California and there may be an
ISIS connection.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: On behalf of the American Muslim community, we unequivocally
condemn the horrific act that happened today.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: Despite condemnation form mainstream Muslims there is no question the
image of Islam is severely damaged in America. We will comment on that.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: Sometimes when you are up there, you get overly excited. You have to
kind of be careful.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: Also ahead a very lively interview with Donald Trump who remains the
frontrunner in the Republican presidential sweepstakes.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: Are you going assassins roaming around shooting the families of the
terrorists?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: Caution, you are about to enter the No Spin Zone. THE FACTOR begins
right now.

Hi, I'm Bill O'Reilly. Thanks for watching us tonight.

More Americans die at the hands of Muslim extremists. That is the subject of
this evening's "Talking Points Memo".

The death toll remains at 14. 21 wounded after two Muslim extremists attack a
public facility in San Bernardino County, California yesterday. Now, here is the
update tonight. 28-year-old Syed Farook and his 27-year- old wife Tashfeen Malik
left their six-month old daughter with a relative and then embarked on a day of
murder.

Farook worked as an environmental inspector for the county and attended a
holiday luncheon at the Inland Regional Center. Farook left the celebration,
returned a short time later with wife brandishing semiautomatic weapons. The
pair opened fire, shot off approximately rounds then left after about five
minutes.

Acting on a tip, police traced the couple to a home in nearby Redlands where a
car chase began. It ended with Farook and Malik being shot dead by police. Two
officers were injured in the action. They are ok this evening.

Now, what really happened? Authorities say Farook, an American citizen and
Malik, a Pakistani rented a home where they apparently made bombs and
accumulated weapons and a massive of ammunition.

A number of reports say Farook was an extremist with an ISIS connection and that
makes sense as you don't have a house full of bombs unless you have terror on
your mind. Also, ISIS immediately praised the mass murder calling the killers
quote, "lions".

So now we have yet another terror attack generated by Islamic fanatics -- one
born here, the other a Pakistani. The damage these two have caused spreads far
beyond the dead and wounded. Good American Muslims are devastated.

I talked with a doctor in Chicago -- solid citizens. His family has been here
for more than a century. He, his wife and children now feel branded because of
all the terror in the name of Allah. There are literally millions of good
Muslims all over the world being battered by these ISIS killers and their
fanatical followers.

In addition, the mass murder in California has political implications which
we'll examine this evening.

Once again the terror spotlight is directly on President Obama who has been soft
on fighting the jihad. And now has angered many Americans almost beyond
description. Critical mass has indeed been reached.

And that's the memo.

Now for the top story: last night as we were reporting, of the breaking news
from California, THE FACTOR was the first news operation in the world to
identify the primary killer.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JIM HANSON, CENTER FOR SECURITY POLICY: The name Farook Syed came out as the
suspect who went in to this meeting/holiday party left angrily and they believe
was the one who came back and initiated the shooting.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: Once again, joining us from Washington Jim Hanson and from Los
Angeles, Aaron Cohen -- both are counter terrorism experts.

Mr. Hanson, congratulations on that breaking story. What can you tell me that's
new this evening?

HANSON: Well, Bill, I think the fact that the police and FBI are now announcing
that they found jihadist materials, that there was an online presence of
jihadist sites with ties to ISIS removes any doubt that this was a terror attack
and it was a jihadist and his wife who committed it.

Now, I think the thing to pay attention to, you mentioned that ISIS and its
fanatical followers are besmirching millions of Muslims. It should be noted that
when Pew International surveyed Muslims worldwide, more than one third supported
violence in the name of jihad. That is half a billion Muslims worldwide who do
not besmirch themselves by ignoring this. They have supported it and that is one
of the bigger problems we are dealing with.

O'REILLY: Ok. Mr. Cohen, this reminds me of the Boston Marathon bomber situation
in which you have two people. You had the Tsarnaev brothers up there. They come
to America -- the wife did anyway. The guy was born in Indiana. And they
radicalize themselves for whatever reason and then they go out and they kill and
maim. Really no reason to do it -- they just feel compelled to do it. Am I
missing something here?

AARON COHEN, COUNTERTERRORISM EXPERT: I think what we're seeing is a connection
to Islam, to be able to carry out acts of terror for people who were suffering
from low self-esteem combined with wanting to connect with ISIS.

Look at the tactical footprint here -- Bill. There is a lot of similarities
between the equipment that was stockpiled which investigators found once they
made entry into the home between the attack yesterday and what we saw at Fort
Hood which was, again, multiple weapons, the fact that there was preemptive
planning involved, roots. I'm not speculating here.

And the most common thread for me the tactical footprint on this one also the
same with the bombers in Boston is the level of aggression that we're seeing
with these would-be terrorists. That's the thread that I'm connecting here for
the tactical footprint.

O'REILLY: Yes. I mean they're sociopaths, they're psychopaths, they hate. And it
doesn't matter who us is. It could be a child, a woman, a man. It doesn't matter
what color you are or religion you are. They go in and they're just blasting
away.

So, Mr. Hanson, I mean I don't know any society can stop that -- a free society.
Do you?

HANSON: I think you have to look at the fact that they're not just sociopaths or
psychopaths. They do have an animating ideology. That ideology is jihad. It's
the pursuance of Sharia. It is furthering the goal of ISIS which is a global
caliphate. ISIS now has an intercontinental caliphate and these people feel that
their contribution is to kill infidels to further that cause.

O'REILLY: All right. They're like soldiers in the war, ISIS is their central
command and here they are. But you are dealing with a free society -- a society
that allows people to come and go.

And, you know, again, these people, it's always the same story, Mr. Cohen, and
you are out in L.A. -- how could this happen? The imam of the mosque -- oh, no,
we never saw. The guy's brother-in-law can't believe it. It's always the same.
It's always the same kind of stuff. And it just seems to me that we're in a war,
we are not really fighting it but even if we fought it even if President Obama
was a war time president, I don't think you can stop this kind of stuff,
totally. You can't.

COHEN: Well, there is no such thing, Bill, as total safety, but in Israel we
have learned that we can get to a high degree of safety as long as the safety
protocols are looked at realistically. I know that's a subjective term. I hate
to use it, it's very Israeli.

But at the end of the day if you don't take the aggressive posture both
defensively in terms of training our security forces here, little less reliant
on the technology, more on behavioral profiling and the intelligence sharing,
which we're not great at but we are getting better at.

What I mean by that is the eagles have to come down, in the intel word, to
collect the data and accumulate it and then be able deploy it real-time which is
the key with terror and then be able to go after these threats aggressively
using Special Operations Force.

If you don't do it the way we know it works in Israel in the end ultimately you
are going to fail.

O'REILLY: Well, this war is now defined for all Americans except President
Obama. He is not leading. I don't expect him to lead but the folks are really,
really furious.

And then the other thing is that we're going to learn over the next day or two
whether this guy was on the terror watch list, this Farook and his wife --
whether the authorities did have an eye on him. Because with all the social
media links to ISIS and all the stuff they found there has to be a link. Then
you're going to see hell to pay if they knew about him and they didn't do
anything.

So gentlemen -- you stand by. We're going to bring you back in a couple of days
because I know this story is going to have more to it. We appreciate it tonight.

Next on the rundown, ISIS people are already here in America, as you know. We
are going to tell you precisely what we know about that.

Then the political implications of the mass murder, we'll talk to Dana Perino
and Newt Gingrich.

Also ahead: an interview with Donald Trump.

THE FACTOR is coming right back.

O'REILLY: "Impact Segment" tonight, ISIS collaborators in the U.S.A. As we
reported earlier this week a new study by George Washington University uncovered
about 300 ISIS advocates living in America and authorities have arrested about
70 individuals on ISIS-related activities.

For years police here in New York City have been monitoring radical mosques and
other places where suspected terrorists might gather. The left-wing mayor of New
York City now Bill de Blasio shut that program down.

But joining us now to explain how it did work, the former police commissioner of
the Big Apple, Ray Kelly. The commissioner is also the author of the new book,
"Vigilance: my life serving America and protecting its empire city". And that's
what the program was all about protecting New York City, right?

RAY KELLY, FORMER NYPD COMMISSIER: Exactly.

O'REILLY: All right. So how did it work?

KELLY: Well, the program that the mayor eliminated was the demographics unit. We
wanted to know who lived in New York City, the most diverse city in the world.
It's very tribal. We knew that, for instance, suicide bombers were going from
one town in Libya into Iraq in 2003. So we wanted to know in a more granular
fashion who was in New York City -- perfectly legal.

For instance, it gave us information that told us where the Chechen community
was in the metropolitan area. Why was that important? The Boston Marathon
bombers were coming to New York, if you recall. They told the individual who
they hijacked the car from that they were coming to New York.

O'REILLY: Right.

KELLY: We knew --

O'REILLY: And they were Chechens.

KELLY: And were Chechens. So we knew where they might go. That sort of
information is helpful.

O'REILLY: You called it the demographic unit.

KELLY: Right.

O'REILLY: And this was basically compiling information about where certain
groups of people were living.

KELLY: Right.

O'REILLY: Right?

KELLY: Totally in public. It wasn't surreptitious. Police officers in civilian
clothes some had language skills went out and spoke to people in the community.

O'REILLY: What's going on, you know? Anybody new in town? That kind of thing.

KELLY: Yes.

O'REILLY: We did hear that there were some NYPD undercover that went into
radical mosques. There were a few in Brooklyn that we've ID'd where the imams
are preaching hate and that you guys sent in people to find out what was going
on. Was that true?

KELLY: To follow leads. We go wherever those leads would take us. If it took us
to a mosque, fine. If it took us to Saint Patrick's Cathedral, we go there as
well, or to a synagogue. So, you can't have a refuge.

O'REILLY: But you did, you did send undercovers into certain places.

KELLY: When it's appropriate. When it was appropriate.

O'REILLY: When it was appropriate. When you had reasonable cause to do so?

KELLY: Precisely.

O'REILLY: All right. So was that helpful? Did you get information from, you
know, radical places not just mosques but maybe clubs and things like that?

KELLY: Yes. Well, the ultimate test is we had 16 plots against New York City --

O'REILLY: 16?

KELLY: -- and none succeeded on the Bloomberg watch. It was all part of a major
comprehensive program.

O'REILLY: I just want to be clear. So you disrupted 16 plots by policing in this
manner, demographically, going where you thought trouble might occur and
assembling information? You disrupted 16.

KELLY: It's important to know that in part with the FBI and we were lucky in
some of those cases.

O'REILLY: Ok. So the new mayor comes in and he's a very liberal guy and he says
no, no, no. This is profiling and we are not going to do this anymore. What is
your response to that?

KELLY: That was inappropriate. Perfectly legal -- there was no reason to
eliminate it. We changed the name to the area assessment unit but --

O'REILLY: The area assessment unit?

KELLY: Right.

O'REILLY: So you change it from the demographic squad to the area assessment.

KELLY: They had some more duties.

O'REILLY: Ok. But that's still not good enough, right? He says no, I don't want
any eyes, even if a guy is out there screaming he wants to kill Americans, and I
love ISIS, you are not allowed to chase him around or look at him.

KELLY: And this gave him a front page story in the "New York Times" - -

O'REILLY: -- which is what he wanted.

Now do you think anything is going to change now that we have this terrible
thing in San Bernardino where this guy is going to be linked up to ISIS? He is
just a regular guy. He's got a little baby, He's got a wife. Do you think de
Blasio is going to wise up and the other people will wise up?

KELLY: I don't know. It's very challenging to identify someone like this. We
will see how much information he has on the computer who he's he talking to.
That --

O'REILLY: I'm talking about the political mind set. Is it going to change?

KELLY: We can only hope. I don't know. If enough pressure is put on, we will
see. But New York is the number one target in America. That's the consensus of
the intelligence community. But we see a city like San Bernardino that was
certainly not the center of the world.

O'REILLY: No. But this guy was there. He was there and he was willing and able
and planned it and he was going to do it.

KELLY: Correct.

O'REILLY: All right -- Commissioner, Thanks very much. We appreciate you coming
in.

KELLY: Thanks for having me -- Bill.

O'REILLY: Directly ahead, Dana Perino and how the terror killings will effect
President Obama, Hillary Clinton and the Republican candidates.

Then a very lively interview with Donald Trump leading the GOP pack with tough
talk on terrorism. THE FACTOR is coming right back.

O'REILLY: "Personal Story Segment" tonight, the mass killings in San Bernardino
are an embarrassment to President Obama who is widely perceived to be soft on
Islamic terrorism.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: ISIL is not going to pose an
existential threat to us. They are dangerous organization like al Qaeda was. But
we have hardened our defenses. Our homeland has never been more protected more
effective intelligence and law enforcement professionals at every level than
they are now.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: With us now, co-host of "THE FIVE" Dana Perino. So that was after --
that was this morning and after the terror attack. ISIL is not an existential
threat. Existential means it's a threat to disrupt the entire society that we
have.

And I'm saying to myself, you know, first it was gun control. That was his first
reaction, the President, you know, it's all about gun control. And then it's
well, you know what they are a little pesty but our security apparatus really
has it under control. And you've got 14 dead and 21 hurt -- what's under control
about that?

DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS HOST: I understand the President's desire to express
confidence and try to reassure Americans that the government is on top of
things, but he doesn't ever seem to hedge a little bit.

I mean we have known for a long time that the terrorists just have to be right
once, we have to be right 100 percent of the time. And if we don't have the
resources, the intelligence resources to help disrupt plots that are under
planning like the one in San Bernardino, we can't actually help the police to
prevent them from happening in the first place.

O'REILLY: As I told the guys before you, you're never going to stop it all.

P6: No.

O'REILLY: You can't. All right, it's a free society. You're going to take your
-- you're going to take your blows. But this president simply will not
acknowledge that this is a war.

P6: I agree.

O'REILLY: And he's aided and abetted by the press who goes along with it. Listen
to this CNN sound bite last night, go.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TOM FUENTES, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: So, to me, this takes on some type of
a planned attack with multiple people that don't like the government, and that
sounds more like some type of militia group.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: That was before they knew and we broke the story as we mentioned that
it was an Islamist. It's a right wing militia. This guy just pulls this out of
the sky. He has nothing to base this on at all -- nothing, zero.

But that's his wish. That's what he wants. And it plays right into President
Obama's wish.

P6: Their first thought is never but it's terrorism.

O'REILLY: Never.

P6: And I also think it's very clarifying to me when you talk about good versus
evil. That's not out of the realm of possibility that there are antigovernment
folks out there. But that was his first thought was to go there -- not to wait.

O'REILLY: That's what he wanted it to be that. They want it to be it.

P6: Well, even now the government is reluctant to call it terrorism.

O'REILLY: Well look, I think it's a decent -- we are getting a decent amount of
information. They may be reluctant but we are getting the profile. There is no
doubt he is an Islamist.

PERINO: There's no doubt. And so was his wife.

O'REILLY: That's what it is. And so was his wife. And they were there. And they
got bombs in the house and oh, nobody knows. Come on, nobody knows? Nobody
knows? I don't believe that for a second.

P6: No. And I think they will probably find out that there are more.

O'REILLY: That's right.

P6: It does seem that the President wants to stick by his original comments that
ISIS and al Qaeda are the JV team.

O'REILLY: But he is making himself look weak and foolish.

Now, on the Republican side who do you think benefits politically from the
increased concern with terrorism?

P6: Well, I think I'm reluctant to say that any tragedy actually helps somebody
politically.

O'REILLY: No, no but in general?

P6: You know, I have to say that Chris Christie could possibly be one of the
people on the stage that says, look, I have been there. I understand terrorism
--

O'REILLY: And he's done that -- right.

P6: I have prosecuted it and so because he has been hanging on and he is heading
into a debate in a couple of weeks. I think if anyone actually were to be able
to say I have experience that can help us deal with this generational war that
we're heading into, it might be Chris Christie.

O'REILLY: All right. Dana Perino -- everybody. Thank you as always.

Plenty more ahead as THE FACTOR moves along this evening: Donald Trump, did he
gain from the terror attack? We have a very spirited interview with him coming
right up.

And Newt Gingrich will analyze what Mr. Trump says and talk about whether
President Obama will ever change his war on terror strategy.

We hope you stay tuned for those reports.

O'REILLY: In the "Campaign 2016 Segment" tonight, an interview with Donald
Trump. We conducted it yesterday before the terror attack in California
happened. But many of the themes we talked about are relevant to the Islamic
terrorist situation.

However, we begin the interview with President Obama traveling to Paris this
week for the global warming conference.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

O'REILLY: Let's talk a little policy first off. What did you think of the global
warming summit in Paris this week?

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I think it's ridiculous. We have
bigger problems right now. And to have the President be there for an extended
period of time talking about global warming being the biggest problem facing
this country is insane.

He ought to get back to work and solve the ISIS problem and solve the problems
we have with Russia and Iran. If they spent as much time working on the Iran
deal as they did -- I mean this horrible, horrible transaction where we're
giving away $150 billion dollars and which will lead to nuclear proliferation by
the way. He ought to get back here and go back to work.

O'REILLY: Do you believe in global warming climate change? Do you think the
world is going to change for the worse because it's getting warmer?

TRUMP: I think that there will be little change here. It will go up it will get
a little cooler, it will get a little warmer like it always has for millions of
years. It will get cooler, it will get warmer. It's called weather. I do believe
in clean, you know, I have received -- a lot of people don't know this. I have
received many environmental awards, many, many environmental awards for the work
I do. And I believe strongly in clean water and clean air. But I don't believe
that what they say, I think it's a big scam for a lot of people to make a lot of
money.

In the meantime, China is eating our lunch because they don't partake in all of
the rules and regulations that we do. They are buying our coal. We are not using
our coal. They are buying our coal and they are using it and then they compete
because they're spending a lot less money to build their products and to make
their products. So, I am a believer in clean air and clean water at the highest
level.

O'REILLY: All right. If you were president, would you invest a lot of money in
alternative energy to get away from fossil fuels and would you limit the amount
of coal emissions and other industries into the air?

TRUMP: I want to get away from the Middle East. I want to get away from the
monopoly that they once had and they still have to a certain extent. I want to
be able to be self-sufficient to the country. Now due to the new techniques,
things that we didn't even know about three or four years ago. It turns out we
have virtually unlimited supply of fuel right under our feet due to fracking and
many other techniques that frankly are very new. And we are able to take care of
ourselves. I know a lot about wind. Wind is destroying a lot of problems, number
one it's killing the birds. The birds and the eagles and you see what's
happening in California with, you know, if you shoot an eagle, a bald eagle in
California, they want to put you in jail. And, yet the windmills are killing
them by hundreds.

O'REILLY: So, you're not a -- of what's happening.

TRUMP: No. I'm not -- I'm not -- I think it's fine in certain locations. I think
it's fine. The problem with the wind is it needs tremendous subsidy. Wind needs
tremendous subsidy. So, I think wind is fine.

O'REILLY: Would you invest government money in alternative fuels? Would you do
that? Or would you just let it go?

TRUMP: I would spend money on certain things. Now, it always sounds better than
it is. You know, you have 36 year pay back. I always want to go solar. I love
the idea of solar and then I do a test and you get your money back in 36 years.
The problem is, the panels destroy themselves after 10 years. So, it's just, you
know, you have got to make it economically viable, Bill. Right now it's no
economically viable.

O'REILLY: And if it were, then somebody would be marketing it. That's for sure.
Now this morning on "FOX AND FRIENDS" --

TRUMP: -- if you could to do.

O'REILLY: OK.

TRUMP: It has to be viable. Yes.

O'REILLY: This morning on "FOX & FRIENDS," you are talking about ISIS. And you
said this, role the tape.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: Fighting a very politically correct war. The other thing is, with the
terrorists you have to take out their families. When you get these terrorists,
you have to take out their families. They care about their lives. Don't kid
yourself is. But they say they don't care about their lives. You have to take
out their families.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: So what does that mean? Are you going to have assassins roaming around
shooting the families of the terrorists?

TRUMP: When the World Trade Center came down, the people that knocked it down,
the terrorists that knocked it down, put their families on airplanes and sent
them back home. Mostly to Saudi Arabia, believe it or not.

O'REILLY: That was the Bin Laden Bush thing. Yes.

TRUMP: They put them. The Bin Laden disaster.

O'REILLY: But would have you killed Bin Laden's family?

TRUMP: I would have done a very great destruction -- look, supposedly, they
don't care about their own lives. I disagree with that they want to live, too.

O'REILLY: All right. But you have to define to me, take out their families. What
does that mean?

TRUMP: Bill, Bill. Do you think the wives and the families knew exactly what was
going to happen with September 11th? I do and I know they did. Well, I do, I
think they did.

O'REILLY: So, when you say take out though. What does take out mean?

TRUMP: You have to do what Israel was doing for a period of time. Take out means
that you have to wipe out their homes where they came from. You have to
absolutely wipe them out. It's the only way you are going to stop terrorism. You
have all these cells.

O'REILLY: Would you kill the family members of terrorists? Would you have killed
the Bin Laden family?

TRUMP: I don't want to be so bold. I want to tell you they would suffer. They
know what was going on. If you look at what happened with these terrorists, they
put their wives on the planes. Those wives knew exactly what was happening. The
children, everybody knew. But they put their wives and families on those planes.
They went home. They knew what was going to happen. They sat back and watched
daddy on television.

O'REILLY: How do you know they knew?

TRUMP: Because I knew. Because that's the way life is. Because I'm a realist.
That's the way the life works.

(CROSSTALK)

O'REILLY: Bin Laden had a lot of wives. And he had some relatives here. He is
over in Afghanistan hatching a plot. I don't know if you can -- you know, I
don't know. You can't really take them out.

TRUMP: We have to be, Bill, hey, Bill, we have to be much tougher than we are.

O'REILLY: All right.

TRUMP: We're just not doing it right. We have to be much more vigilant and we
have to be much tougher.

O'REILLY: Okay.

TRUMP: We can't allow this to happen. They take the wives. They put them on
planes, they send them home. Let's go home and let's watch daddy tonight on
television knock down the World Trade Center. There has to be retribution. And
if there is not going to be retribution, you are never going to stop terrorism.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

O'REILLY: Now, in part two of our interview, I ask Mr. Trump why he makes so
many statements that get him into trouble. Right back with it.

O'REILLY: Thanks for staying with us, I'm Bill O'Reilly. Continuing now with
Donald Trump, as you may know, he said that he saw thousands of Muslims in New
Jersey celebrating after the 9/11 attack. We investigated and came up with the
very interesting report from WCBSTV five days after 9/11.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There is another apartment building, one that investigator
told me, quote, "is swarming with suspects." Suspects who I'm told were cheering
on the roof when they saw the plane slam into the trade center. Police were
called to the building by other neighbors and found eight men celebrating. Six
of them, tenants in the building. The FBI and other terrorist task force
agencies then arrived and the older investigators on the task force recalled
that they had been to this building before eight years ago when the first World
Trade Center attack led them to shake Omar Abdul Rahman (ph) whose Jersey City
mosque lies between the two buildings getting attention today.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O'REILLY: Now, I played that report for Mr. Trump yesterday while telling him we
could find no other videotape germane to the issue.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

O'REILLY: So, no videotape about, you know, thousands of people celebrating, it
doesn't exist. And we really looked everywhere. I mean, it's just not there. But
there were people celebrating. Mayor Giuliani confirms in New York it happened.
Mr. Guzman confirms in Jersey it happened, so does the Jersey State police. So,
you were wrong by saying thousands but it did happen. What say you?

TRUMP: Well, I don't know that I'm wrong, Bill. You know, this just came out
from Breitbart. I mean, literally it just came out. Trump vindicated, 100
percent vindicated. And this just -- I mean, literally I'm just seeing it now.
So, I don't know that I'm wrong, there are a lot of people, you know, we don't
have cell phones today with the cameras on them. I mean, if we did, I think you
would see something a lot different. You look at what happened recently a week
ago with the soccer game where they had a minute of silence for the people that
were just absolutely, it was horrible what happened in Paris. And they honoring
those people a minute of silence. And you heard shouts from the Muslim world at
the game that were horrendous.

O'REILLY: Do you remember what country that was?

TRUMP: Excuse me?

O'REILLY: Do you remember what country that was?

TRUMP: It was a different country.

O'REILLY: It was Turkey.

TRUMP: I'm just saying.

O'REILLY: Okay.

TRUMP: Yes. It was Turkey, I'm just saying. There is great hatred out there.

O'REILLY: Nobody is disputing that.

TRUMP: And people are not acknowledging it.

O'REILLY: Where you get in trouble, with all due respect, of course, is what you
give a speech and you say things like I saw thousands and there weren't
thousands.

TRUMP: But you don't know that there weren't, Bill. Bill, you don't know --

O'REILLY: I was reporting. And believe me if there were thousands that would
have been reported.

TRUMP: This article says they were swarming. Bill, this article says they were
swarming all over the place.

O'REILLY: All right.

TRUMP: So, I don't know what that means but it means a lot of people.

O'REILLY: There were some people, not thousands. What I want to get at is this.
You are giving a speech.

TRUMP: You don't know that Bill. Bill, you don't know that. Bill, you don't know
that.

O'REILLY: I'm pretty confident.

TRUMP: All right, you are pretty sure. You are pretty sure. You don't know that.
This says swarming all over New Jersey.

O'REILLY: You are not always right. So, you know, take it to the bank.

TRUMP: Okay.

O'REILLY: All right. So you go to Virginia and you give a speech tonight, okay?
Do you have that speech printed out or is ad-lib speech?

TRUMP: Well, it would be so much easier to just read off a teleprompter like our
President does where he reads a teleprompter because he can't do anything else.
I like to not do that. I have thousands of people, the other night we had 15,000
people.

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: You know, why?

O'REILLY: Why?

TRUMP: It's more exciting. You know, the other thing about it?

O'REILLY: But you get into trouble.

TRUMP: I can talk about current events. I can talk about things that took place
two hours ago. I can talk about a soccer game if it was played and people were
screaming horrible things and it took place an hour before I go up.

O'REILLY: Okay.

TRUMP: And frankly, it's much more exciting to speak for the people for
everybody even for me. But now --

O'REILLY: I understand --

TRUMP: -- to do that, you need extraordinary memory and you need lots of ability
to be able to speak in front of 20,000 people without a speech.

O'REILLY: You have that.

TRUMP: I think it's much better.

O'REILLY: But here's what happens, sometimes when you are up there, you get
overly excited. And you're speaking extemporaneously. And then you say things as
anybody would because a crowd is cheering and everything is going wild that you
don't know to be true but you believe to be true. But you don't know it. So
that's the risk as a president, all right? When you're out there is a man who
wants the most powerful position in the world, you have got to be kind of be
careful in those speeches because that's what gets you in trouble. Do you get my
point?

TRUMP: I would love to read speeches off of a teleprompter. It is so easy to do.
I would even love to read speeches -- but you know what? You don't get the same
excitement. You don't get the same feeling and I haven't made very many mistakes
that I can tell you. You know, when I talked about when I announced and when I
talked about illegal immigration, all of a sudden everyone, I mean, the world
went crazy and thought it was terrible. Four weeks later, I was number one in
the polls because everyone realized I was right. In fact there was about one
week later. But I was number one in the polls. And now I'm number one in every
single poll. A big one, I hate to hear this. But a big one is coming out CNN
tomorrow. I don't how it's going to be.

O'REILLY: All right.

TRUMP: But I look forward to that one! But we are number one in every poll,
including the FOX poll, very important.

O'REILLY: All right. But I'm saying that --

TRUMP: -- and we beat Hillary. By the way, Bill, and we beat Hillary head to
head.

O'REILLY: All right. And I'm sure she is thrilled to that.

TRUMP: She is thrilled.

O'REILLY: With the responsibility, okay, with the responsibility that you are
seeking comes personal responsibility and when you say something, you have to be
pretty damn well sure that attacker is not hyperbole. That's the point I'm
trying to make and I'm sure you understand.

TRUMP: I have had very few complaints, Bill. I've had very few complains. And we
get the biggest crowds by many, many times and we get far bigger crowds than
anybody else.

O'REILLY: That's because you're so charismatic.

TRUMP: We have a great -- you know what? We have a great time with a tough
subject because there is not a lot of good news happening with the United
States. You understand that better than anybody.

O'REILLY: All right.

TRUMP: So we have a great time, as good as time as we can, with subject matter
that's not so pleasant.

O'REILLY: Always very fascinating to talk with you, Donald. And we always
appreciate your time. Thank you very much.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

O'REILLY: In a moment, Newt Gingrich will analyze whether Mr. Trump will gain
the California terror attack, moments away.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And I just want to assure my fellow citizens here in
California that we're going to go just as far as we have to to make sure that
public safety is protected. Thank you.

MICHAEL RAMOS, SAN BERNARDINO DISTRICT ATTORNEY: First and foremost, I want to
thank the governor for being here. Mike Ramos, District Attorney. I'm a very
fortunate District Attorney. We're working cooperatively with the U.S.
attorney's office, U.S. attorney, Eileen Decker and I can't tell you how proud I
am of the team work of both our local agency, San Bernardino Police Department,
the sheriff's department and our federal partners, the FBI and others. And
finally, as the District Attorney, we are very saddened of the loss of the
victims, family members, some family members of the attorneys in my office and
we are going to be there for the victims. If you go to at SB County DA on
Twitter, you will have a direct line for victim services, any other family
members that need support and help, we will be there for you. Thank you.

DAVID BOWDICH, FBI ASSISTANT DIRECTOR IN CHARGE OF LA OFFICE: Good evening.
First of all, I want to thank you for your patience. As we've said from day one,
this is a marathon, not a sprint. It's a tragedy that occurred. We'll continue
to do everything in our power bringing all the resources to bear, the federal
government to work hand and hand with the state and local partners on this
matter. We continue to exploit all the evidence possible and as I've said from
day one, the evidence will lead us to the facts. We will go where the evidence
takes us. Thank you again for your patience.

CHIEF JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE DEPARTMENT: Good evening, everybody.
Thank you very much for being patient. I know we were going to try to do this a
little bit earlier, 4:30 is what we were shooting for. We just couldn't quite
make that happen but thanks for sticking with us. Were we able to get those
pictures up? So we have some pictures of the crime scene where the
officer-involved shooting took place. We'll be able to provide digital copies of
those images online for everybody that wants them but they are pictures of the
weapons, they are pictures of the suspect vehicle and a few others in there. We
wanted to provide that.

Additionally, I got a few more statistics and numbers for folks just as an
update from earlier information that we have put out. As we said, this was a
department of public health event. As it turns out, it was an event that was
training in the morning, those transitioning to a holiday Christmas Party lunch
in the afternoon. And this happened right about the time of that transition.
There were 91 invited guests that were there. We believe that there were about
75 to 80 people that were present in the room when this occurred or that
ultimately came to that party. We don't have the exact number because they had a
sign in list and we're still working through some of those dynamics. We don't
know that everybody signed in.

Of the 21 people that were injured, 18 of them have been identified as county
employees. Eighteen of the 21 were county employees, the other three were not
county employees. Of the 14 people that are deceased and their identities have
been released now, 12 of those individuals were county employees, county of San
Bernardino, two of them were not. And then finally, one of the questions that
came from the media is that you wanted to hear from one of the first responders
when we responded to this on Wednesday morning. So I'd like to introduce
Lieutenant Mike Madden. Spelling is M-i-k-e last M-a-d-d-e-n.

Mike is actually one of our administrative commanders for the Police Department.
He's a 24 year veteran. As an administrative guy, he really has a desk job. The
realty is at 11:00 in the morning on Wednesday, Mike was on his way to lunch
when this call went out and he didn't hesitate. Mike was the first officer that
was on scene and he was the first person that we had that gathered the first
units that went in and addressed this. So, I'm going to let Mike kind of tell
the story of what they experienced firsthand and then we'll take a few questions
for Mike as soon as he's done.

LT. MIKE MADDEN, FIRST OFFICER ON THE SCENE: Thank you, sir.

I guess I was just asked to come forward and talk a little bit about what it was
that we saw and experienced yesterday and I'll tell you that it was something
that although we train for it, it's something that you're never actually
prepared for. When we got the call, I oversee dispatch, it's one of my functions
and responsibilities with the Police Department and I know my dispatchers. I
know, I know the tone of their voice. I know the severity of calls as they are
going out and I could hear it in our dispatcher's voice that this was actually
happening, this was a real event and it was the event that, you know, we have an
active shooter and we have an active shooter going on in our city and I was
nearby.

I was less than a mile away. And I started coming this way. And I realized as I
was getting closer that I was one of the very first units there, myself and
officer Sean Sandoval arrived almost simultaneously and just out of pure luck
because the information was evolving so rapidly, it was out of pure luck that I
happen to pull into the right location, which was just south of the road that
you see here, just north of us. It was just south of the building where this
tragedy took place. As I was looking and seeing all of the activity and trying
to assess what was happening, I was informed that there was, that that was the
location where this was happening and I was asking for officers to respond as
quickly as possible because we had every belief at that time that we had people
still actively being shot inside of the building.

My goal was to assemble an entry team and enter into the building to engage the
active shooter. This mindset and this type of training became indoctrinated in
us after the Columbine incident and that was the goal that we were on it to get
in there. And we wanted to stop any further innocent people from being injured
and possibly killed. As three officers arrived, there was an proximate
two-minute time lapse from the time that I got there until we had a team
assembled of our four initial responding officers and the four of us then went
around the south side of the building.

As we made our way around to the east side, it was immediately evident that the
reports that we were getting were 100 percent true. There were victims who were
clearly obviously deceased outside of the conference room and I re-laid that
information to the other responding officers and again, requested assistance. As
we entered into the conference room, the situation was surreal. It was something
that I don't think again we prepare for and they try to an active shooter, we
talk about sensory overload, they just try to throw everything at you to prepare
you for dealing with that. What you're seeing, what you're hearing, what you're
smelling, and it was all of that and more. It was unspeakable. The carnage that
we were seeing, the number of people who were injured and unfortunately already
dead and the pure panic on the face of those individuals that were still in need
and needing to be safe.

We asked -- we got as many people out as quickly as we could. We had
approximately, I estimated in talking with the other officers who were with me,
probably 50 people responded past us and out the doors and then we went further
into the building and that was a difficult choice to have to make, as well,
passing people that we knew were injured and needing assistance but our goal at
that time had to be trying to locate the shooters and deal with them before we
could get further assistance in for those people in need of medical attention. I
was very glad to see that in a very short period of time we had a number of
other responders that came in and were able to formulate tactical teams and then
continue on with the search. And I was then able to pull back from the situation
and go back into handling more of a supervisee role and allowing other officers
to continue with the remainder of the search. Does anybody have any questions?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Did you think there was still an active shooter? What were
you thinking about in terms of there might still be someone in the room? And my
second question is, how are you doing personally? How are you handling this?

MADDEN: First question there was we absolutely believe that there was another
shooter. We were told that there were as many as potentially three shooters but
again, we were getting information from multiple callers and people weren't, you
know, clear as to exactly how many shooters we did or did not have. Some were
seen potentially reporting double, you know, suspects and things of that nature.
So, we were told that one of the suspects had possibly fled in the black
vehicle, prior to our arrival but there was many potentially as two more
shooters inside and when we entered, there was fresh gun powder and the smell of
gun powder in the air leading me to believe that there was in fact, there were
in fact shooters still.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You are trained for this obviously but you talk to people you
can never be trained for it when it happens. How emotional was it for you? It
looks like there are tears in your eyes right now.

MADDEN: You know, you -- to be honest, you guys, it was a little surreal. It
was, you know, you train for it and know that your job is dealing in reality but
it seemed a little surreal but yet, I did the job that I was supposed to do. My
job is to go in there and --

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120301cb.256

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               37 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                           December 3, 2015 Thursday

                        SHOW: THE KELLY FILE 9:00 PM EST

Authorities Hold Briefing on California Attack; Killers Had Huge Arsenal of
Weapons; Former Islamic Extremist Says Signs of Radicalization Not Always
Obvious; New Details Emerge on Suspected Couple

BYLINE: Megyn Kelly, Trace Gallagher, Adam Housley

GUESTS: Sebastian Gorka, Maajid Nawaz, Mia Bloom, Mia Bloom, Morten Storm, Peter
King, Mark Fuhrman, Catherine Herridge

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 7197  words


MEGYN KELLY, HOST, "THE KELLY FILE": I'm Megyn Kelly, you're watching THE KELLY
FILE.

We are watching police from San Bernardino, California bring us the very latest.
We have heard this officer here, Mike Madden, describe it as unspeakable carnage
and we listen to what else he has to say.

LT. MIKE MADDEN, FIRST OFFICER ON THE SCENE: So, you know, just knowing, though,
that yes, we resolved that situation quickly. But there is so much tragedy that
is left behind. There are so many families as we go into the holiday seasons
that are now going to have to deal with the tragedy that was left behind by this
senseless act of violence. That's a little tough to deal with.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You talked about the panic that you saw in people's faces,
how do you deal with that? What do you say to them? How do you calm them down
when you yourself are going through this chaotic situation?

MADDEN: You know, you have to be clear in your orders. The initial 50 people did
not want to come to us. They were fearful and they were in the back hallway area
and that actually heightened my concern that -- and my fear that potentially the
suspects were in that hallway holding them hostage and waiting for us to enter
into the hallway. We had to tell them several times come to us, come to us and
ultimately, they did and once that first person took the motions forward, it
opened the flood gates and everybody wanted to come and get away from that as
quickly as possible. So, you know, we can't panic in those situations. These
people have already dealt with enough. The last thing they need to see is there
are police officers panicking.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Was it silent in there or did you hear screams? Can you tell
us what you're taking in?

MADDEN: It was extremely loud. The fire alarms were going off. There were people
who were obviously injured and obviously in great amounts of pain and that was
evident in the moans and the wales that we were hearing in the room. It was very
loud in the room. And we also have fire sprinklers going off inside the room so
that was adding to further chaos.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Were they immediately trying to offer information about the
shooters or did you get a sense they didn't realize what had just happened?

MADDEN: We were -- my primary goal was to find out how many and where they were.
And I was asking individuals but again panic was obvious and apparent and so we
weren't getting a lot of further information in regards to that.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Did you find the bomb, your team found the bomb?

MADDEN: No, our team did not find any of the explosive devices. Those were found
later.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There was a holiday party where the decorations, food tables,
chairs.

MADDEN: That sums it up, yes, it was. It was a fairly large meeting room and I
noticed upon entry that there is a Christmas tree in there. All of the tables
were decorated for a Christmas Party and it just seemed so senseless, that, you
know, here is people going into their holiday festivities and now we were
dealing with that.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You talked about -- you talked about the training that you
have. (INAUDIBLE) going in there and think about it, did you feel the adrenaline
going through your system?

MADDEN: Yes, I'm sure I did. But you can't let your emotions over ride your
judgment and you need to do the job that we're supposed to do. You know, that's
just what we're trained to do.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You were the last day and a half seems like an incredible
drama from the victims and you yourself and other responding officers?

MADDEN: You know, I have tried to make a point of those officers that I knew
were some of the initial guys in with us, which there were many officers who did
an extraordinary job yesterday for our department and also for all of the
agencies who responded so quickly. It was just, it was truly overwhelming to see
all of the agencies that got here and got here in a hurry to provide us
assistance because just like I said, I was sensing that this was a true event
and they had the same sense and they got here and nobody hesitated. People knew
what their job was and their job was to try to bring some calm to chaos and so
it's one of those things, you know, I've gone around and tried to contact our
officers. I've tried to assess how they are doing, talk a little bit about it
and, you know, in doing that maybe that's helping me a little bit, as well. So,
I think we'll all work through it together.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Is there a video showing some of the incredible courage
from an officer helping the people at the scene, I'll take a bullet before you
do, I'm sure of it. Is that you? And if not, who was that?

MADDEN: No, I would like to think I was that cool, no. But unfortunately that
wasn't. I don't know that that officer has been officially identified as of yet
but I'm told he is one of Sheriff McMahon's folks but again, I haven't had that
confirmed.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What was your reaction when you saw that?

MADDEN: I'm sorry?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What was your reaction when you saw that video?

MADDEN: I saw that everywhere yesterday. That was what was happening everywhere
during this event.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Can you address the pride that you felt with the men and
women in the manner in which they acted at that scene yesterday and can you just
address how you felt about those men and women that were under your command?

MADDEN: You know, we've taken a lot of hits lately. Some justified, much of it
not justified, and it takes a toll. It takes a toll on all cops because it's
hard being -- it's hard being labeled and hard being branded as, you know, being
rogue or, you know, and I guarantee you that no cop comes into this job with the
mindset that oh, great, now I have ultimate power to be corrupt and to violate
people's rights. There are cops who go astray but overwhelmingly, the vast
majority of officers and when I say vast majority, I'm talking 99.5 percent of
the officers go out and they do the job to protect the public and yesterday just
reminded me of that and it just solidified that again in my heart and in my
mindset and for that, I'm, for that I'm thankful.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We'll going to take two more questions.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Obviously you were on patrol that day, what have you heard
from the residents? Obviously this is sinking in you and a lot of people in this
community. What have they told you?

MADDEN: You know, not just myself but every officer who I'm encountering right
now is getting the same kind of positive encouragement and support. Because
again, I think this -- we can never -- we can never underlie the tragedy that we
felt in the city and so many families yesterday but there is support for law
enforcement.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (INAUDIBLE) -- the threat you're facing had some level of
sophistication and they had some level of training and to follow up, did they
leave anything behind -- manifesto or any note?

MADDEN: It was pretty clear when we knew we had an active shooter and when we
saw the severity and the amount of carnage upon our initial entry that this was,
that there -- this wasn't just a rogue individual, this was -- there was
something more. So as far as us finding any kind of manifesto, no, sir. I don't
have any information regards to that. Okay? Thank you.

CHIEF JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE DEPARTMENT: So real quickly, Mike
made reference early on that this was hard to believe that this was happening in
his town. Mike was raised in this town. Went to high school in this town and
spent the majority of his law enforcement career in this town. So, it's genuine
when he says that. That he felt that this was his town being attacked. So with
that, thank you for being here, folks. We will be back in the morning for
another press conference and I believe somebody from the sheriff's department
might stand by to talk about the photos and get the digital images. Thank you
very much, folks.

KELLY: Welcome back, everybody. I'm Megyn Kelly. That news conference was
remarkable. With the authorities not giving us new information in terms of what
exactly happened, but giving us a lot of new information in terms of the
details. We have known -- we have known that 14 people were killed. Tonight we
learn that 12 of them were county employees. We have known now that 21 were
injured. Eighteen of those were county employees. They set the scene inside that
room. For the first time. That 91 people were invited. 75 to 80 were present
when the gunmen showed up. It was a department of public health event.

They were starting out with business in the morning, transitioning to a
Christmas Party. There was a Christmas tree inside the room. Christmas trees on
all of the tables. They were trying to have a celebration. Of Christmas.
Instead, 23 days before Christmas, 14 of them would die. The police officer you
just heard from at the end Lieutenant Mike Madden who was the first responders
talked about how they train for this. But they could never imagine what actually
happened. They are trained to experience sensory overload but it was that and
more. He said it was immediately evident upon arriving at the scene that the
reports they had been hearing of an active shooting situation were true.

Victims who were obviously dead outside the conference room. The situation
inside the conference room, he said, was surreal. Talking about the smell of gun
powder. The fire alarms going off. The sprinklers going off. The people wailing
in pain who were suffering. Those down the hall who were terrified, not knowing
what was happening or whether there were more shooters in his efforts to coax
them, to come to the police and how it took the courage of one person to
actually come forward and then that opened the floodgates of the people who knew
these police would protect them. And protect them they did. You heard the bit at
the end there was no manifesto found on-site. There had been a question about
that and we're looking at video on screen right of the police escorting people
out of the building. Have you seen this tape yet? You hear what the cop says?

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you. Thank you. I'll take a bullet before you do,
that's for damn sure. Just be cool, okay?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Relax. I'll take a bullet before you do. That's for damn sure. Okay.
Tonight we have learned the identities of the 14 people murdered by their
co-worker and his wife during the Christmas Party. The youngest victim, 26 years
old. The oldest, 60. Police have also revealed that this crime was anything but
spontaneous. Saying the killers had a huge assortment of weapons and a virtual
bomb factory at their homes. Still we don't know whether it was terror. Police
say, this evil husband and wife couple fired off some 75 rounds at their victims
inside the Christmas Party conference room. They left three rigged together pipe
bombs at the party. With a remote control detonating device that apparently
malfunctioned.

They fired another 76 round at the cops during a fierce gun battle. They had
more than 1600 rounds of unused ammunition in their rented SUV when police
killed them. Meantime, at a family home, police found 12 pipe bombs, tools for
making more, and an additional 3,000 rounds of ammunition. All of this combined
with their use of tactical gear makes it clear this couple was ready to kill and
the carnage could have been much worse. In moments tonight, we will be joined by
Dr. Sebastian Gorka, who provides counterterrorism training to the FBI and by
former Islamic extremist Maajid Nawaz.

But we begin tonight with Trace Gallagher reporting from San Bernardino,
California. Trace?

TRACE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: And Megyn, now the police confirmed the
Associated Press that Syed Farook was in fact watching ISIS propaganda on-line
and was in fact in contact with people the FBI had under investigation for
terrorism. The next step is for them to find out exactly how deep these contacts
were. Were these people, these groups, involved in any type of planning? The FBI
has long said, this was a very well-planned event. The question now is, was
there any outside planning? Did these suspects have any training? Were they
getting any funding? And those answers might come in some of the evidence that
was taken out of the home of the killers over the past 24 hours.

We have seen all kind of electronic equipment coming out. We are talking about
computers, and cell phones, and experts say that would give police some type of
idea of exactly when these conversations were going on, how long they were going
on, and maybe how long the planning stage might have lasted. Because the
firepower you just listed, Megyn, was so extensive, police were actually
concerned or at least convinced that this might not have been the original
target. The Christmas Party wasn't the original target and that somehow the
killers got off track and they were planning for a much bigger attack and they
certainly had the firepower to do so.

But we have also learned that in the weeks before this attack, there was a
confrontation between Syed Farook and one of his co-workers. The co- worker was
deeply devout Christian and there was an argument between them that got very
heated, says the co-workers wife, about Islam, about whether Islam was a
peaceful religion. That co-worker was among the 14 who were shot and killed. I
just want to, for the viewers who missed that amazing press conference at the
top of the hour, Megyn, it started right before THE KELLY FILE went on the air
and for those who didn't see Lieutenant Mike Madden, he grew up here in San
Bernardino, he is not even a street cop anymore. He was an administrative cop.
He was on his way to lunch when he got the call. And he said he had to go in and
he said it, really summed it up saying, that look, these people were celebrating
Christmas and the next thing you knew, they were dealing with death. I'm not
sure if we have the soundbite. But we have Mike Madden -- I want you to hear
what he said right at the top of the news conference. Listen to this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MADDEN: I tell you that, it was something that, although we trained for it, it
is something that you're never actually prepared for. It was unspeakable. The
carnage that we were seeing. The number of people who were injured and
unfortunately already dead, and the pure panic on the face of those individuals
that were still in need and needing to be safe.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GALLAGHER: And in every tragedy there is irony. There were 14 people who were
killed, Megyn. Six of them were women. Eight were men. One of the men was the
father of six. One of the women had escaped as a child Islamic extremism in
Iran. And finally, we should note that police are very interested in this trip
that Syed Farook took to Saudi Arabia in the early spring -- Megyn.

KELLY: We are learning a lot more about him today as well. Trace, thank you. The
trip to Saudi Arabia. The trip to Pakistan. He was apparently born to two
Pakistani parents as was his wife. And the wife is a whole story unto herself.
We will get to her in a minute.

The FBI is now taken over this investigation. And my next guest just happened to
have been with the FBI in Los Angeles while this attack was unfolding.

Dr. Sebastian Gorka provides counterterrorism training to the FBI and Special
Forces. He serves as the Major General Matthew C. Horner, distinguished chair of
Military Theory at Marine Corps University. He has a fascinating website as
well. TheGorkaBriefing.com. In short, Dr. Gorka is the real thing. Doctor, thank
you for being here. You were on the program ten days ago saying, we're on our
own. That it's going to happen. And today as we sit at 9:16 p.m. Eastern Time,
we are still being told it might not be terror. It might, it might not be.

DR. SEBASTIAN GORKA, MARINE CORPS UNIVERSITY: I think that discussion is over.
If the report that your colleague just gave us, that there is confirmation of
not only that this individual was accessing ISIS Jihadi propaganda. But also
those in contact with individuals who had previously been investigated for
connections to Jihadi groups like ISIS or al Qaeda, I think that train has left
the station. You heard the Lieutenant himself, the first officer on the scene,
say unequivocally, this was not a rogue incident. This isn't a question of
somebody who had, you know, an individual grievance with a colleague or who had
some kind of psychotic wreak. Everything we are hearing reinforces that this was
a well-prepared plan by people who have an ideological commitment to holy war,
to Jihad in the name of Allah, and that's what they did yesterday in that
government building.

KELLY: We still like to believe that the FBI would be on to somebody like this.
Somebody who is communicating with suspected extremists. Somebody who is
building bombs in his apartment, in his house. Many of them. Somebody who is
arming himself to the gills. Along with his wife who he just picked up over in
Saudi Arabia, came back and married her. And we want to believe that, you know,
people like you are monitoring these people and will know whether they are
getting ready to do something like this. But it's not true.

GORKA: Well, look, the fact is, I work very closely with the FBI. I've worked
closely with the NYPD. These organizations are doing incredible work. Look at
the fact that in the last 20 months, we have killed or arrested 82 ISIS
suspects. ISIS supporters on U.S. soil. That is through the amazing work of our
federal state and local law enforcement and our intelligence community. But it
is very, very challenging. The report that I mentioned previously, that my
company has just published on ISIS as a domestic threat, which your watchers,
your viewers can access at ThreatKnowledge.org. We have examples there of an
ISIS dialogue who is here in the United States, who was pumping out the kind of
material that apparently this mass murderer was consuming. And that individual
had 48,000 followers on his social media site. So we've done a great job at
intercepting and stopping those people who want to do Jihad here in America. But
who knows how many more there are. That's the real question and it is
fundamentally a human challenge, a human intelligence challenge.

KELLY: And what is being done to encourage the development of that intelligence
by this administration.

GORKA: What is being done to stop it, that's the better question. You've had
your own experience in New York with Mayor de Blasio shutting down some of the
most incredibly powerful intelligence initiatives of the NYPD. And over the last
several years, we have seen this at the federal level. We've had the attempt by
the administration to excise, to censor training and the materials used to
prepare our operators. For example, the word Jihad should not be used. Should be
deleted from power point slides, from materials used for training, because it
could be deemed inflammatory to Muslims. This is where you see politics getting
into the intelligence cycle where you see censorship distorting the national
security function. And I have talked to these people, I talked to our operators,
and they are angry, they know that this will endanger Americans if you allow
political correctness into our national security mission.

KELLY: And that is where we pick it up with our next guest. Doctor, thank you.

GORKA: Thank you, Megyn.

KELLY: Well, the things that relatives and neighbors are saying about this
suspect, Farook, seem to paint a very contradictory picture. His father said he
was, quote, "very religious." And a neighbor told reporters that about two years
ago he became more devout, growing a beard and wearing religious clothing. Other
say, he seemed normal, quite, was living the American dream. And our next guest
who was once an extremist himself says, that's exactly the problem. And that the
signs of someone going down the path of an Islamic radical may not be as obvious
as you think.

Maajid Nawaz is a former Islamic extremist and author of "Radical: My Journey
out of Islamist Extremism."

Maajid, thank you very much for being here. We would like to think we would know
if we work next in the next county -- you know, for the county, we work next to
somebody who is becoming radicalized. But we might not know.

MAAJID NAWAZ, FORMER ISLAMIC EXTREMIST: Actually, most times, Megyn, we don't
know. That's the sad state of affairs. It's unfortunate. I mean, what we just
heard from policeman Mike Madden, was nothing short of heart breaking. And those
first responders deserve medals. The survivors of this atrocity deserve all of
the condolences and respect. But we can never predict this. And one of the
reasons, if we look back, we have the evidence to indicate exactly from past
terrorist attacks what exactly happens here. If you look at 9/11 attackers, many
of their passports were found in strip clubs and bars. If you look at the
Tsarnaev brothers in the Boston marathon bombers, you find that it was very
difficult to predict that these were becoming Islamist theocrats and terrorists.
I mean, if you look at just even to this month, if you look to the Paris
attacks, evidence indicates that some of the attackers owned bus and were fully
integrated in French society --

KELLY: So, the question is, what people are supposed to do? Because we heard
reports from one neighbor, she saw some suspicious behavior. She didn't want to
report them because she didn't want to seem like a racial profilers.

NAWAZ: Yes. And actually, the evidence points to the fact that those who join
terrorist organizations would try to conceal any ostensible sign of religious
devotion. Precisely so they are not detected. So, if we're going to look to
profiling, I think that ethnic profiling and profiling for overt signs of
religiosity would actually miss the target as it has done so in this instance.
If you have -- indicates this was indeed a Jihadist attack. I think what we need
to start looking at is, psychological factors. We can start looking at ideas
that are adopted and behavior.

Now, those sort of ideas we are familiar with, you know, anyone who starts
saying things such as, it is a duty, it's incumbent upon Muslims to resurrect
the so-called theocratic caliphate. Or somehow is a global war going on against
the Islam and Muslims. Or somehow democracy is antithesis to Islam.

KELLY: Uh-hm.

NAWAZ: These are the sorts of ideas that radicals begin to adopt. And if they
begin speaking in this way, I'd say to you Megyn, even if they are drinking
alcohol and eating pork, if they are speaking in this way, they are a surer sign
to radicalization than overt signs of religiosity, which will be concealed by a
terrorist.

KELLY: And it is lead out quite well in your book. Thank you, Majid.

NAWAZ: Thank you.

KELLY: Two weeks ago on this broadcast, a former al Qaeda infiltrator turned CIA
spy made a chilling prediction that just came true. He is back tonight with a
disturbing follow-up.

Plus, is there a terrorist cell still hiding in San Bernardino? That
investigation is next.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DAVID ESPINOZA, WITNESSED SAN BERNARDINO SHOOTOUT: Gunshots. Gunshots. Gunshots.
Oh, oh, they are killing that guy.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We are in pursue of the suspect vehicle, East- bound on San
Bernardino Avenue from Richardson. We've got shots fired out the back window.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: East San Bernardino, shots fired! We need a Bearcat! We need
medical aid!

(Gunshots)

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: We are tonight getting to hear for the first time some of what unfolded
on the police scanners during the shootout between the cops and these two
suspects yesterday. In 24 hours since that happened, we have learned that the
suspects Syed Farook and Tashfeen Malik were husband and wife. They have a
six-month-old baby girl. And that when police entered what was supposed to be
the couple's happy home, they found what is being described as a, quote,
"factory for explosive devices."

Adam Housley is live near that home tonight. Adam.

ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Megyn. They were tipped off about
that factory or that facility last night here in Redlands. We've learned a lot
more today too. When we first got back out here this morning, some of the first
information we're getting was, that this woman, this wife, was a bit mysterious
to investigators. They were learning a lot about the husband and his family but
not a lot about her. As the day has transpired, we're learning more. First of
all, they do believe, now, at least they are working on the theory, that's the
word to me, that this couple planned on a second hit. That their first hit was a
soft target on purpose.

As one terror investigators told me, this is an m.o. for a terrorist attack.
They go for the soft target first to make sure they have success. That way if
the second target goes awry, the more difficult one, they've already had a
success. And so they believe they were intending on hitting a second target.
That's the premise is. They also believe that these two may have been married --
not married, may have been engaged in Mecca when they were in Saudi Arabia last
year. And the third point I think is very interesting as well, they are now
working on the premise that she may have radicalized him.

Which does makes some sense in some ways when you look at all the facts that
have been laid out there in trying to connect the dots. And again we were told
she was the one shooting out of the back of the car. We do know there was some
training involved here. And they were going on that as well. A lot of
information Megyn as you know coming out from a lot of different sources, both
national and international as they continue to go forward in this case. But for
us, the headline for us that came out tonight, is that they believe they were
going for a second target -- Megyn.

KELLY: Wow! Adam, thank you.

Joining me now with more, Mia Bloom. She's a professor of Communications at
Georgia State University. She is also the author of the book "Bombshell, Women
and Terrorism" and she has been studying this issue for years. Mia, thank you so
much for being with us tonight. Very happy to have these expertise. She may have
radicalized him. How does that sound?

MIA BLOOM, PROFESSOR OF COMMUNICATIONS, GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY: You know, this
is very consistent, Megyn. We've seen a lot of women who were far more radical
than their husbands. And I think this preconceived idea that women are the
kinder, gentler sex, is thrown out the window. Because we've seen a lot of very
radical women associated with al Qaeda. ISIS. Even Hayat Boumeddiene is
allegedly the person who pulled Ahmad Coulibaly into the organization. So, we
shouldn't be surprised.

KELLY: He was very devout or then said to radicalize or seems have some signs of
getting more religious, more recently.

BLOOM: And I think that it's consistent and maybe temporarily. When he met her,
he went to Saudi Arabia twice, first to meet her and her parents, and then also
then to get married. It is very likely that the relationship with her is what
may have been the tipping point or the spark that radicalized him.

KELLY: What? What kind -- I mean, I've realize we are dealing with a different
ideology, but what kind of radical Islamic woman goes on what's - - potentially,
very much a suicide mission, when she has a 6-month-old baby girl?

BLOOM: Well, you know, it is interesting, Megyn, it's not just radical Islamic
ideologies. We saw this in June of 2014, where Jerad and Amanda Miller, also a
couple, shot up two police officers and killed someone at Wal-Mart. So this is
not specific to the Islamic organizations. We've seen the couples in a variety
of groups. These people were sovereign to the extreme right-wing. So we have
radical women in all the groups. But we have also seen within the jihadist
groups, whether it's the Chechen Black Widows, or in 2004, a Palestinian woman,
suicide bomber Reem Riyashi blew up at Erez crossing and left her child. And In
fact, she even posts with the child in her Last Will and Testament Videos. So a
lot across a bunch of groups we have these women.

KELLY: You raised a question before the show of whether we might possibly be
looking at a cell in San Bernardino. Why do you ask that?

BLOOM: I asked it because the fact that they have 4500 rounds of ammunition.
They had body armor, they had 12 pipe bombs. If he was going to attack the
community center, he would have just brought the weapons at the first, you know,
when he first went there for the party. I wonder if maybe he had an encounter
with the Mr. (inaudible) where he had a fight with before and he snapped. He
knew he had all the weapons back at his house, went home, got his wife, got the
weapons, it doesn't -- for me, make sense. Why he wouldn't have taken the
weapons in the first place. I think maybe there might have been a different
target, but that -- at the party, he got very upset.

KELLY: Mia, thank you so much for being here. We appreciate it.

BLOOM: Thanks for having me.

KELLY: All the best.

Coming up, the husband of a shooting survivor shares his wife's harrowing story
from inside the building. Listen to this.

Plus, counterterrorism experts now saying the kind of devices these suspects
left behind are signatures of al-Qaeda. Catherine Herridge is here on that. And
then we will speak with Morten Storm, a man who was infiltrated al-Qaeda about
the chilling prediction he made on this broadcast, two weeks ago.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MORTEN STORM, FORMER CIA DOUBLE AGENT INSIDE AL-QAEDA: And for that I believe
that within the two weeks, next two weeks that we will have a (inaudible) begin.
I also believe that a copycat in America will do the best to do what their
brothers have done in Europe.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

AARON ELSWICK, NEIGHBOR: They had I guess been receiving packages -- quite a few
packages within a short amount of time, and that they were actually doing a lot
of work out in the garage. And she was kind of suspicious and was -- wanted to
report it, but she said she didn't -- she didn't want to profile.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: As more and more neighbors report what they considered to be suspicious
activity at the San Bernardino shooting suspect's home. We were learning more
about their weapons and other devices they left behind. And as one
counterterrorism expert tells Fox News, some of those items appeared to be
signatures of al-Qaeda. Joining us in a moment is Morten Storm, the former CIA
double agent who infiltrated al-Qaeda, who predicted this kind of attack would
happen on U.S. soil almost to the day of yesterday's attacks. But first, Chief
Intelligence Correspondent Catherine Herridge is live in Washington with more
about what we are learning on the possible terror ties here. Catherine?

CATHERINE HERRIDGE, FOX NEWS CHIEF INTELLIGENCE CORRESPONDENT: Megyn,
confirmation tonight, the 12 pipe bombs and hundreds of tools to build IEDs
found in the couple's garage and the key data point for investigators is the use
of remote control toy car parts. This is a signature designed for al-Qaeda in
Yemen and a practice borrowed by ISIS. The online al-Qaeda propaganda magazine
inspire includes a how-to guide to build bombs using the toy car parts for the
detonator. It can be set off with the controller using line of sight or an app
on your cell phone. The sheer number of devices suggests some training and some
familiarity with explosives, even though this device found near the scene did
not detonate.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CHIEF JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE DEPARTMENT: It's my understanding
that somehow it was three pipe bombs that were attached together. Somehow
attached to this remote control car and it was designed that the remote control
device would somehow trigger or set that device off. We don't know if they
attempted to do that and it failed or what the story is.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: The FBI says the Tsarnaev brothers built pressure cooker bombs using the
inspired recipe and also relied on these toy car parts for the detonator to kill
at the Boston marathon. The assistant FBI director on scene today telling
reporters they are looking for a connection to the al- Qaeda magazine inspired,
Megyn.

KELLY: Catherine, thank you.

HERRIDGE: You're welcome.

KELLY: Our next guest infiltrated the al-Qaeda terror organization as a double
agent for the CIA. And two weeks ago, he was on this broadcast, predicting that
we would see domestic terror attack in U.S. soil within a couple of weeks.
Morten Storm is now a terrorism consultant for the International Spy Museum and
co-author of Agent Storm: My Life Inside the al-Qaeda and the CIA. Morten, thank
you so much for being here and so, the question is, having predicted this, what
do you think will happen next?

STORM: Well, I'm almost afraid to say something, because when I do say
something, it happens. And I have a feeling that within the New Year, there
could possibly be another one in America, possibly two in Europe, and the - -
but it is a feeling I have. You know, these people, they are not going to stop.
And we have Christmas, that's what they want it destroy. We have celebrations
for New Year. These are the things they want to hit us. And in 2016, it's going
to be a very bad year for all of us.

KELLY: You can't -- we can't think about the fact that they were having a
Christmas party with Christmas trees on the tables and in the room and try to --
and get bewildered about why they would shoot up a room and a bunch of people.
That's part of the joy for them. They want to destroy those moments.

STORM: Yes, of course. I mean, I just -- you know, I want to say that in this
book here and had this in (inaudible) is 2,818. Prophet Muhammad tells the
believers that paradise is under the sword -- under the shade of the sword is
paradise for the believers. So -- no wonder that, you know, it's never going to
end. You know if these people -- and I used to believe in this. I used to follow
this (inaudible). You know, if Islam is, as it is, is very violent, we are
facing people who are determined and who believe that paradise is under the
shade of the sword.

KELLY: Do you think, Morten, that there is likely to be -- that there are likely
to be more people connected to these two in San Bernardino?

STORM: You know, with all the ammunition, do you the explosive and all the
preparation, of course they have more than that. They have a network out there.
I'm a hundred percent sure about this.

KELLY: How -- we just had our last guest talking about the likelihood that she
radicalized him, if that's in fact what happened. Did you ever see that?

STORM: Yes, I have seen women who are (inaudible). In fact, I've sent
(inaudible), he ran his whole life to Yemen (inaudible). She also a Croatian
converts Muslim. And then she was married first to a Muslim in Great Britain in
London. But he wasn't strong enough. He wasn't good Muslim, devout enough. So
she divorced him and she want (inaudible) because he wanted to commit
(inaudible) jihad. And in fact, after he says, she sent me a letter, thinking of
one of them. But I was double agent thinking she said in the letter that she
wanted to become, she asked -- she follow for permission to blow herself up and
become a suicide bomber.

KELLY: Unbelievable. And some -- I mean, you -- just so the audience, was he was
talking about Anwar al-Awlaki's wife, who Morten, helped find who is
communicating with him personally after Awlaki was killed and how she could blow
herself up and kill more people. Morten, it's always unbelievable talking to
you, thank you for being here.

STORM: (inaudible).

KELLY: OK.

STORM: You inspire magazine, as an inspiration to create those pipe bombs. And
the strike where (inaudible) and went out of the -- sent me (inaudible) was also
killed. He was an (inaudible). He was an American national Pakistani who also --
who was the editor of that magazine now. I'm happy that being a part of taking
these people out.

KELLY: Absolutely. Now the CIA and the FBI are doing herculean work in trying to
stop these guys, but the manpower, it's not what it needs to be - - Morten,
thank you.

We are also getting new information on a search underway for the person who
bought the guns used in the attack. It was not one of these two. And when we
come back, Congressman Peter King will join us on where this investigation is
going, next.

KELLY: Breaking tonight, reports just coming in that authorities are now looking
for a man who bought two of the guns used to kill 14 people in California
yesterday. New York Congressman Peter King is a republican and member of both
the Homeland Security and Intelligence Committee. It's good to see you tonight,
sir. So they are looking for somebody else.

PETER KING, HOMELAND SECURITY COMMITTEE: Thank you, Megyn.

KELLY: It wasn't one of these two who bought two of the guns. Does that mean
there's another person involved?

KING: It could be or he could be that he was just a person selling guns. You
know legally or illegally, it could have been a cash transaction. Whether or not
he was involved with them, again, that's all part of this investigation that's
going on which -- again, could have many dimensions as it goes forward.

KELLY: What are the odds that this is a cell, that there is some cell in San
Bernardino?

KING: You know, Megyn, it is almost impossible to believe that these two could
have assembled all of this by themselves, to have that amount of firepower and
bombs and long guns and amount of ammunition. So I would think right now that
you have to assume that there's others involved. And there are other
ramifications, because if that is true, then that could mean as other attacks
that are planned. I think that's what the FBI is most concerned about now. Yes,
they want to solve this and why they did it, and, but I think also, is this went
off by itself or are other attacks planned? Is it coordinated or is it just
something that these two, maybe one, two others had, you know, put together.

KELLY: Right.

KING: As if it is coordinated.

KELLY: Because if they had something bigger planned, who else --

KING: Yeah.

KELLY: Who were they planning it with, if anyone? What are they're looking at
now? We have heard now that he had sketchy connections with this guy.

KING: Again, you know we are looking at any phone contacts he could have had
with people who have shady backgrounds or people who were been suspicious. Who
he could have met with, who he dealt with on social media.

KELLY: Well they said, they said he did have contacts with people who are
suspect extremists, but the contact happened after the investigations were
closed and police have moved on from them, or authorities have moved on from
those guys.

KING: Well, in that case, Megyn, maybe they should reopen those investigations.
Maybe they should look in. And again, just like, you know, the Tsarnaev brother,
he was also cleared in Boston by the FBI. They looked into him and they cleared
him. And he went out and turned out to be radicalized. So I think all of this
shows the importance of full in-depth investigation. And when you listen to
Lieutenant Mike Madden, you realize the outstanding jobs the cops have, but also
the challenges they have. And in fact with the FBI and the NYPD and the police
have been under siege because they want to carry out surveillance. Who is the
one who find what is happening in these communities. Maybe this will be a
wake-up call to people who somehow think the cops are spying and snooping when
they are doing the type of police work that's essential to keep you and me safe.

KELLY: Congressman, good to see you.

KING: Megyn, thank you.

KELLY: Up next, a chilling story, one woman shared with us about what happened
when she was shot in this attack.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

LIEUTENANT MIKE MADDEN, FIRST OFFICE RON SCENE: You know we've taken a lot of
hits lately. Some justified. Much of it not justified. And it takes a toll. It
takes a toll on all cops because it's hard being -- it's hard being labeled and
hard being branded as, you know, being rogue or, you know. And I guarantee you
that no cop comes into this job with the mindset that, oh, great. Now I have
ultimate power to be corrupt and to violate people's rights. There are cops that
go astray. But overwhelmingly, the vast majority of officers, and when I say
vast majority, I'm talking 99.5 percent of the officers go out and they do the
job to protect the public.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Joining me now with more on that, former L.A. police detective department
-- department detective and Fox News Contributor Mark Fuhrman. Mark. Good to see
you. Well said. Well said.

MARK FUHRMAN, FORMER LAPD DETECTIVE: Megyn, you know, when I listen to his
words, they're so heartfelt and so meaningful. And you can tell they're coming
from his heart. But I think everybody should know that right now in America,
just to go out in a police uniform takes -- is really an act of courage. The way
that the public has demonized the police and I think everybody should realize
that I think this shooting in San Bernardino, we realize that we are at war with
Islamic jihadist in this country, but the Special Forces, the special ops that
are going to fight this war inside the borders of this United States are cops.
The cops in uniform, the cops that are in plain clothes, the detectives and the
more you demonize them, the less motivated they're going to be able to be the
less sure of their actions. And this is going to be a safety issue for the
entire country.

KELLY: For all we know this cop was watching, "pigs in a blanket, fry them like
bacon, a couple weeks ago, and what do we want? Dead cops, when do we want them?
Now." You know, that's the context for, you know, how cops have to go on the job
these days?

FUHRMAN: It is. And when you think about that, you kind to wonder just who would
want to go into an environment like that where you're throwing yourself, you
know, from the kettle into the fire. I mean that's crazy. But they do it, and
they do it because they're a certain breed of person.

KELLY: And they know as we saw this cop on.

FUHRMAN: And doing something like this.

KELLY: Inside the building saying, "I'll take a bullet." Do we have it? Listen.
Watch.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Try to relax, everyone. Try to relax. I'll take a bullet
before you do, that's for damn sure. Just be cool, OK?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Go ahead, Mark.

FUHRMAN: That's exactly who they are. They don't want medals. They want
recognition from their brother officers. They want recognition from their
citizens from the victims. They're not looking for some kind of an award or even
their name to be.

KELLY: Yeah.

FUHRMAN: To set on the media. They're doing their job.

KELLY: That's it.

FUHRMAN: That's what they are. That's what they do.

KELLY: They want to protect the public.

FUHRMAN: And people better respect them.

KELLY: Mark Fuhrman, thank you. We'll be right back.

KELLY: Tomorrow, we'll bring you our survivor story, we told you about. We ran
out, but short time tonight with that presser. These are challenging times,
folks. Thank you for trusting us as your news source here at Fox. I'm Megyn
Kelly, this is The Kelly File, see you tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120301cb.251

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               38 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                           December 3, 2015 Thursday

                         SHOW: FOX HANNITY 10:00 PM EST

San Bernardino Shooting Investigation Update; Interview With GOP 2016
Presidential Candidate Donald Trump

BYLINE: Adam Housley, Sean Hannity

GUESTS: Donald Trump, Robert Spencer, Harris Zafar

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 7422  words


ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX CORRESPONDENT: "FOX News Alert." I'm Adam Housley in Redlands,
California, where the investigation into yesterday's shooting and killing of 14
continues not only in three locations here in southern California but really
around the globe.

FOX News has learned this evening some -- several details. First of all, that
investigators now believe the wife in this case may have potentially radicalized
the husband.

They've also learned that they're now looking at a money trail that reaches
outside the country, that may reach to other foreign lands to help pay for some
of the supplies. By some estimates, according to federal authorities, the couple
spent more than $30,000 on bomb-making materials, as well as weapons and also
bullets.

Meantime, we're also hearing now from survivors and those who lost their lives
are those -- relatives of those who lost their lives yesterday. And Commander
Mike Madden from the police department headed a press conference this evening.
He was a first responder. Listen to what he said.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MIKE MADDEN, SAN BERNARDINO PD CMDR.: The situation was surreal. It was
something that I don't think, again, we prepare for, and they try to -- an
active shooter, we talk about sensory overload. They just try to throw
everything at you to prepare you for dealing with that, what you're seeing, what
you're hearing, what you're smelling. And it was all of that and more.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HOUSLEY: I'm Adam Housley in Redlands. We'll have updates for you throughout the
night. Now back to "Hannity."

SEAN HANNITY, HOST: And welcome to "Hannity." Tonight, the threat posed by
radical Islamists right here in America is real and it is being ignored by your
president, President Obama. Now, while law enforcement is still investigating
yesterday's shooting in San Bernardino, California, we're learning more about
the suspects.

Now, a source briefed on the investigation has now told FOX News that Syed
Farook did have contact with individuals who were previously the subject of FBI
terrorism investigations. They say many of those cases have since been closed.

And Reuters is also reporting the Saudi embassy in Washington is saying that
Farook traveled to Saudi Arabia for nine days in July of 2014. Now, the FBI also
said earlier today that Farook traveled to Pakistan, while adding that his wife
was in the U.S. on a K-1 visa and had a Pakistani passport. Now, keep in mind,
radical Islamic threats to the homeland are now increasing.

Now, we now know that there are investigations into ISIS in all 50 states, and
in an interview taped yesterday, the president told you, the American people,
not to worry about ISIS striking our homeland. Watch this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: What I try to do is to make sure
that people understand the threat is real. We have to be vigilant. But we also
can't panic and we can't respond out of fear.

ISIL is not going to pose an existential threat us to. They are a dangerous
organization, like al Qaeda was, but we have hardened our defenses. Our homeland
has never been more protected by more effective intelligence and law enforcement
professionals at every level than they are now.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: The president once again underestimating this enemy. And just hours
before last month's deadly Paris attacks -- remember, that was carried out by
ISIS -- the president made this shocking claim. Watch this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

OBAMA: From the start, our goal has been first to contain, and we have contained
them. They have not gained ground in Iraq. And in Syria, they'll come in,
they'll leave, but you don't see the systematic march by ISIL across the
terrain. What we have not yet been able to do is to completely decapitate their
command and control structures.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: Also, we cannot forget it was back only in 2014 the president said,
quote, "The analogy that we use around here sometimes, and I think it's
accurate, that is if a JV team puts on a Lakers uniform, well, that doesn't make
them Kobe Bryant." Well, the JV team has struck again.

Here now with reaction, the author of "Crippled America: How to Make America
Great Again," 2016 Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump.

Now, we don't know the association here, Mr. Trump, but this -- this is an
important question. How can our president be so wrong so often on so many issues
involving our safety -- the JV team, they are contained, they're not an
existential threat to America? The president won't say "radical jihadists." They
won't say "radical Islam."

How -- what is it about this president? At this point, it almost seems
pathological?

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Well, perhaps he's incompetent. We
have a president that doesn't know what he's doing. I think perhaps you could
actually say hard to believe, but we have somebody that's incompetent. He wasn't
meant for the position, but he's there and we have him for another year, a
little more than a year, if you think. And we're stuck with him, I guess, for a
little while.

And hopefully, the right decision is going to (INAUDIBLE) hopefully, that
decision's going to be made, but we'll see. But hopefully, the right decision is
going to be made and we're going to have an amazing leader, a great leader, and
somebody that's going to do the job and do it properly in every respect.

I mean, we're not only talking about ISIS, we're talking about on trade. We're
talking about on border. We're talking about on "Obama care," which is turning
out to be a total catastrophe. It's a disaster, you look at what's happening
with rates. We're talking education.

We're talking about everything, Sean. We're not just talking about ISIS. But
ISIS right now is the hot topic, and the man doesn't have a clue.

HANNITY: You know, the president -- we now have reports out there all day today,
law enforcement officials saying that Syed Farook was, in fact, apparently
radicalized and in touch with -- and being investigated by the FBI, people
investigated for these international terrorism incidents. Even though the cases
may be closed, it makes you wonder, how come they keep missing these things?

And then you have to raise the question about the president, in spite of what
James Clapper is saying and the FBI director is saying and intelligence
officials are saying, bringing in Syrian refugees, when ISIS we know wants to
infiltrate that population.

What is your response to that?

TRUMP: Well, he doesn't even want to use the term, the proper term to describe
these people. And you know, if you're not going to use the term and if you're
not going to define them correctly, you're never going to solve the problem. So
he doesn't use the term. He doesn't really know.

I don't know. You know, somebody told me before they think he has bad
intentions. Let's assume he doesn't have bad intentions. I just don't think he
knows what he's doing. I think it's gotten to a point where it's embarrassing.
He's over there talking about global warming.

Global warming is our biggest problem. They want to blow up our country. They
went to blow up our cities. They want to knock down our buildings, and he's
worried about global warming. So you know, we have somebody that's not in touch.

HANNITY: Yes. He's talking about the weather, and meanwhile, I was stunned,
former CIA director Mike Morell's comments, where he said the very financial
foundation that is making ISIS rich, the oil wells -- that they made a conscious
decision not to cut off their finances because they didn't want to have
environmental damage.

Is dereliction of duty the proper description of that? How do you describe it?

TRUMP: Well, you know, I've been saying hit the oil for three years. And he
actually put people out to say, Oh, that's not a good idea. Some of his generals
said, Oh, that's not a good idea. I've been saying it for years. On your show,
I've been saying it for a long time. I think you'll confirm that. And he's just
been saying, Oh, no, that's not a good idea.

And his generals are -- now, as soon as Paris happens, I mean, they start
hitting the oil. They should have done it two years ago, and you wouldn't have
ISIS, probably, because that's a great source of their wealth.

I said hit the oil, but also said keep the oil. I said hit the oil but keep the
oil. We wouldn't do that. Why would we do a thing like that? It's too
intelligent. So anyway, they're starting to hit the oil, and that'll be good.

You know, the interesting thing is the one that hit the oil first was France.
But I did hear that there were reports that environmentally -- they had big
environmental concerns because by hitting the oil, you'll put things into the
atmosphere and that would be bad for the world.

So I mean, the whole thing is so preposterous, it's hard to believe. But I've
heard that.

HANNITY: All right...

TRUMP: I will tell you that part of the reason the wall was never built on our
southern border is because they had environmental impact statement problems. And
that's a hard one to believe also (INAUDIBLE)

HANNITY: Then let me -- let's -- let's advance the timeline here. Let's say it's
January 2017. Donald Trump is sworn in as president. How do you deal with ISIS?
What are the first moves you make? What are the moves you make to secure the
border? What are the moves you make in terms of people with visas from countries
where maybe they practice sharia law and there's a clash of culture?

TRUMP: Well, I can talk about that question for about three hours, to be honest
with you. That's a big question in terms of there's a lot of things you're going
to do.

We're going to get rid of his executive order allowing people to just pour into
our country unabetted where, our great border patrol -- and they are a great
border patrol. I've spent a lot of time with them. But they're told to stand
down. Don't do anything. People walk right front of them, and they're standing
there. They want to do something. People are pouring into the country.

So you know, we've had some pretty good luck legally on that one in the courts
recently. But he's got executive orders that immediately terminate them.

I'd hit ISIS very, very hard. I'd check the visa situation because I want people
to have to be the right people coming into the country. And I want people coming
in, they have to come in legally...

(CROSSTALK)

HANNITY: Would you go through every visa?

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: Well, you have to.

HANNITY: Let me ask you about that...

(CROSSTALK)

HANNITY: But if you grow up under sharia law, where women can't drive, need a
male relative to go out in public, that -- you know, the very restrictive laws
that they live under even into Saudi Arabia, it is the antithesis of our
constitutional republic.

How do you ascertain -- if it's a Syrian refugee, if it's somebody that wants to
come here on a visa, how do with ascertain whether they want to bring their
values that they grew up with them or they want to assimilate and enjoy the new
breath of freedom that they've never enjoyed before? I don't think it's possible
to determine that.

TRUMP: Well, I mean, they do want to bring their values. And you know what? If
we were going over, we'd probably want to bring our values, in all fairness,
Sean. I mean, you know, that's the way it goes. That's the way...

HANNITY: Well, I believe in American exceptionalism.

TRUMP: Just look at what happened recently when I made the statement about, you
know, dancing on the roofs and the streets of New Jersey. I mean, now it's been
validated. So many people have come out and said that's right, hundreds of
calls. And they have so much information now. And for the most part, people have
been reporting it, although a lot of them haven't reported it the way they
should be. You've been really amazing. You've been so honest about it.

But I've been proven right. Everybody wanted me to apologize. Now I've been
proven right. And you know, it's the way it is.

Look, they have their customs, and that's the way it is. And I'm not even
blaming them for that. But the question is, is this country prepared to do that?
Are we prepared to go? And you know, like, they're talking about the Syrian
refugees coming in.

Sean, who knows who these people are? There's no documentation. There's no proof
whatsoever. I've seen on lots of shows, including yours, where you have really
good police and police types, and they're saying there's absolutely no way of
verifying where these people are coming from.

So it could be the greatest of all Trojan horses. We just don't know. And you
know, you're not talking about big percentages. If five people come in, the
wrong people, we've got ourselves some big problems.

HANNITY: But how could a president, knowing that his own national director of
intelligence, FBI director, assistant FBI director, his general in charge of
strategizing to defeat ISIS, are all saying what you just said and he's not
listening? You know, you were right. Even Dan Rather had reported on it. Pablo
Guzman (ph) of CBS in New York, The Washington Post, the AP, The Star-Ledger had
mentioned it in some capacity, about people celebrating on 9/11.

Now you're under fire today because you're saying we've got to also take out the
families of those abroad that are attacking Americans and have affiliated
themselves with these terror groups.

Do you want to expand on that?

TRUMP: Well, look at the World Trade Center. The animals that knocked down the
World Trade Center, killing thousands and thousands of people and destroying so
many families, permanently destroying so many families, and the destruction and
everything -- forget the money. The money was massive. But look at the people
that were killed. These

people put their wives and whatever, they put their family, but they put their
wives on airplanes a day or two before, all going back except for one to Saudi
Arabia, OK? They're all going back to Saudi Arabia, and they're all going -- in
other words, they're leaving.

Those wives -- I guarantee you, those wives knew everything single thing that
was going to take place. And they probably said to themselves, Let's go home and
watch our husbands knock down the World Trade Center, the Pentagon, and almost
wherever the other plane was landing, except we had some very brave passengers
on that plane, frankly -- but wherever that plane was going to land. It ended up
in a field in Pennsylvania. But they went home. They knew exactly.

And I say take them out. Take them out. And I'll tell you the thing -- they
supposedly don't care about their lives. I disagree with that. I they're chicken
and they do care about their lives. But supposedly, they don't care about their
lives. But they do care about their families' lives, OK? That's one thing I am
so certain. They know and they care about their families' lives.

Their family, in particular the wives, know everything that's going on. And I
guarantee you every one of those wives went back home, and they wanted to watch
you (ph) on television, the destruction that their husbands were going through.

HANNITY: That's pretty chilling.

TRUMP: I say take them out.

HANNITY: You -- I actually agree with you. You also -- I want to go back to the
five people out of the 10,000 Syrian refugees that the president wants to take
in against the advice of many smart, intelligence officials in our government.
If, in fact, five of those people commit acts of terror and kill Americans,
wouldn't that mean the president has blood on his hands?

TRUMP: Well, look, the president is somebody -- you know, you could say he's a
fool in a certain way because everybody is saying don't do it. He's very
arrogant. He's very stubborn. He doesn't want to listen to anybody. And he's so
wrong. And he's so wrong.

And by the way, the 10,000 is not a real number. The 10,000 is going to be much
more. You know, I've been saying 200,000. The 10,000 is a fictitious number. If
you watch this Democrat debate -- and it is actually Democrat debate, not
Democratic debate. Every network's got that one wrong, but that's OK. They put
it Democratic because it sounds better.

But if you watch the Democrat debate, you would see that the number that they
mentioned was 65,000. Now, he's mentioning 10,000. Let me tell you, they're
going to bring hundreds of thousands. But if you look at the debate...

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: I believe the number is 65,000 they used in the debate.

(CROSSTALK)

HANNITY: ... three-year period, in terms of refugees, not all from Syria, the
number is 255,000, which we've gone over and tried to educate Politifact about,
but they didn't learn.

All right, Donald Trump, stay right there. We'll have more with the presidential
contender when we come back.

And then later tonight, do we need to start spying on mosques with ties to
extremists in America? We'll debate that controversial issue.

Plus tonight...

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We don't yet know what the motives
of the shooters are. But what we do know is, is that there are steps we can take
to make Americans safer.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: The obsession of prominent Democrats to always rush and politicize
tragedy before we even know anything about it. That and more as "Hannity"
continues.

HANNITY: And welcome back to "Hannity." And we continue now with the author of
"Crippled America: How to Make America great Again," 2016 Republican
presidential candidate Donald Trump.

Mr. Trump, you have dominated throughout the entire summer and now throughout
the entire fall. We're less than two months away from the Iowa caucuses. There's
been a little bit of a shift. Ben Carson has gone down a bit. Rubio and Cruz are
coming up. You were kidding around with Cruz the other day, saying, Well, if he
gets too close, I'm going to have to come after you.

How do you assess the race now? Your numbers seem to be in the high to mid-30s
fairly regularly.

TRUMP: Well, I'm winning by a lot every poll. I mean, every single poll, I'm
winning every state. I'm winning all of the national polls. You see the ones
that just come out. Some big polls are coming out very soon. I think I'll
probably do well there.

I'm having tremendous enthusiasm. I go to these meetings, we have 10,000,
12,000, 15,000 people. We get by far the biggest groups, much bigger than
anybody, including Bernie Sanders. You know, his are tanking. But we have always
had bigger than him.

And it's been an amazing -- it's like a love fest. It's like a movement that's
going on because people are tired of stupid people running our country that it's
horrible what's going on. You know, I listen to you. I listen to others. And all
you have to do is read the papers every day...

HANNITY: Scary.

TRUMP: ... and you see...

HANNITY: America is in decline!

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: ... stupidity.

HANNITY: You said America is in decline...

TRUMP: You see the stupidity...

HANNITY: ... and it doesn't need to be.

(CROSSTALK)

HANNITY: Let me ask you -- you have said...

TRUMP: You're right 100 percent.

HANNITY: You had said about the next debate, a CNN debate, that you might not
go, that you wanted -- the networks are making more money because of the higher
ratings. And you said, Why doesn't CNN take $5 million, give it to the wounded
warriors. Jeff Zucker, I guess the -- the president of the organization, said
no, he's not going to do that.

What's your reaction?

TRUMP: Well, look, I'd like to do it. And I said that I would certainly be
willing to give that a shot to get them to pay. They're making a fortune. And
you know, look, I'm not saying it. I will tell you Variety. If you look at all
of the trade magazines, they're saying that Trump is the one that added.

You know, these things used to be terribly rated, and now they're getting 23 and
24 million people to watch it. It's, like, becoming, you know, the biggest stuff
on television. And I said they should take some the enormous profit and give it
to the wounded warriors and the vets. And I want to do that.

The problem is, if I do it, if I actually strike -- and they'll absolutely fold
100 percent. But if I actually did it and they didn't fold, it would be -- you
know, I'm the front-runner by a lot. I think you'll confirm that -- you know, by
a lot. And you know, I don't want to be watching it and having them say chicken
and Trump was afraid to debate.

I think I won the first debates. The on-line polls of all -- Drudge and -- who's
a great guy, by the way. But Drudge and Time magazine and Slate, everybody said
I won the first debates.

So I don't want to be in a position where I don't do it and they say, Oh, Trump
was chicken, or whatever word they want to use, He didn't want to debate. I just
don't want to take that chance.

So you know, it's up to them. I think they should make a major contribution to
the wounded warriors, personally, but it's up to them. They're making a fortune.
Sean, they used to get, like, $4,000 -- I know for the second debate, $4,000 for
a -- like, a 30-second ad. Now they're getting $250,000.

HANNITY: It's a lot of money.

TRUMP: So they're making a fortune. They should make a contribution to the
wounded warriors, in my opinion. But I don't want to be accused ever, ever of
being a chicken, right?

HANNITY: I don't know if that's an adjective that's going to stick you to. Let
me ask you -- the Republicans...

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: It's never happened before, I can tell you that, so...

HANNITY: Both The Hill and Forbes reported about a meeting of big donors out at
the Bel Air Hotel in California, big Republican donors sitting around a table
saying, Oh, if Donald Trump, the insurgent, gets the nomination, they may not
support you.

And meanwhile, the NRSC sent out a memo telling candidates -- by the way,
warning them that you might win, and by the way, you should adopt some of Donald
Trump's both rhetoric, how he dresses, the way he uses Twitter. So kind of
conflicting.

What do you say to establishment people that would not support you because
you're an insurgent?

TRUMP: Well, first of all, the one memo sent that was sent out was a great
compliment. They were telling long-term politicians that have been - - I've only
been doing this for five months. They've been telling long- term politicians how
to act, and they have to act like Trump and they have to dress like Trump and
they have to talk like Trump.

I mean, it's going to be a little bit hard for them...

(CROSSTALK)

HANNITY: ... themselves!

TRUMP: ... Twitter 10 million people. You know, I have 10 million people between
Facebook and Twitter. It's not going to be so easy for them to copy me. But --
@RealDonaldTrump, by the way.

But the other one was a group of people who don't really know. But they were
sort of -- you know, there's a lot of jealousy. There's a lot of anger going on
because nobody's ever seen anything like this.

One of the really great and big reporters called me up and said, How does it
feel? Because this has never happened before.

But, look, I built a great company. And you saw that in the filings I filed. And
people are really impressed and really amazed at how great the company is. And
that's the kind of thinking that we need in our country.

What we're doing is -- you know, the deals we're making, this crazy deal with
Iran, where we're giving them $150 billion. Sergeant Bergdahl -- we get
Bergdahl, a traitor. They get five killers that they wanted for nine years.

You know, this is the way we deal. We don't know what we're doing. So I think
people see that, and I understand that some of the establishment is upset. But
remember this. In the new FOX poll, as you know better than anybody, I beat
Hillary Clinton and I beat her easily. So that's a very important element. Not
only am I leading, but I also beat Hillary Clinton one on one.

HANNITY: Right.

TRUMP: So I think, ultimately, they'll come around. If they don't, that's OK.
You know, I'm self-funding my campaign, so I don't need their contributions and
I don't need them telling me what to do because they have a company where they
want to, you know, rip off the country.

So I'm self-funding my own campaign. I'm the only one doing it. And I think
they're not very happy about it because they won't have control. I won't be a
puppet like the other guys are all puppets.

HANNITY: All right, Mr. Trump, good to see you, as always. Thank you for being
with us. Trying times.

TRUMP: Thank you.

HANNITY: And we got to turn the country around. There's no doubt about it. Thank
you for being here.

TRUMP: You're right. Thank you very much, Sean.

HANNITY: And coming up -- liberals already trying to politicize, pretty
sickening, the San Bernardino shooting.

But first, is it time for the government to start spying on mosques right here
in America that may have ties to extremists? That's next.

HANNITY: And welcome back to "Hannity." So residents of Redlands, California,
are in shock that two of their neighbors carried out yesterday's deadly mass
shootings. Now, last night, one area worker told a local news station, quote,
"He noticed a half dozen Middle Eastern men in the area in recent weeks but
decided not to report anything since he didn't wish to racially profile those
people."

He went on to say, quote, "Now, we'd see them leave when they were -- where
they're raiding (ph) the apartment." So did political correctness prevent the
atrocity from being stopped? And is it time to start spying on some mosques that
we believe have radical ties?

Joining us now, the author of "The Complete Infidel's Guide to ISIS," Jihad
Watch director Robert Spencer, and from the Ahmadyya Muslim community, Harris
Zafar is with us.

All right, if you go back, Robert, and look at -- remember the kid with the
clock bomb? Remember the MRC (ph) that a man on the street -- and they showed
the device to 50 people, all 50 people thought it was a bomb. The teacher
reported it. Look at all the trouble the teacher got in.

Then you have this case, where people see a lot of suspicious activity. They
don't want to be accused of being -- of racially profiling, and they don't say a
word. Are we at a point that maybe this act could have been stopped if people
would have just spoken up, but fear of political correctness prevented them?

ROBERT SPENCER, JIHAD WATCH DIRECTOR: There's no doubt about it, Sean.
Absolutely. And this goes back years. The Fort Dix jihad plot (INAUDIBLE) 2007,
and there was a young man who uncovered the plot inadvertently, and he also was
afraid to go to police initially for fear of being called racist.

Groups like the Hamas-linked Council on American Islamic Relations and others
have for years tried to stigmatize any resistance to jihad terror as racism and
bigotry. And we see in this incident now with the neighbor how successful they
have been.

And the whole moral of the story of that clock hoax bomb that the young man
brought to school is, If you see something, say something -- unless it's a
Muslim. Anybody who -- now who knows that -- who realizes what happened in that
case is going to be afraid to go to authorities. They'll know it'll be career
suicide to do so.

HANNITY: You know, we're now at the point where P.C., Harris, is silencing
people and it can have lethal consequences! Now, I know a lot of people -- and I
know your community, by the way, is outspoken against radical Islamists. But
even this president is too cowardly to say the words "radical Islamist" or
"radical jihad" or "radical Islamic terror."

There's a mysterious reluctance and resistance that's almost pathological now,
and I would even argue is putting people in danger. Do you agree with that?

HARRIS ZAFAR, AHMADYYA MUSLIM COMMUNITY USA: Well, thanks for having me.
(INAUDIBLE) Ahmadyya Muslim community, our belief is that it does -- this
conversation misses a nuance that it deserves. On the one hand, we do
understand, we do agree that terrorism and violence and murder does violate the
explicit teachings in the Quran. But to your point, on the other hand, it is
unfair to say that Islam or religion has no role to play because groups like
Daesh do use Islam or religion to beautify an otherwise ugly ideology in their
recruitment to show that...

(CROSSTALK)

HANNITY: The reality is the radical Islamists are at war with us. They're at war
with Europeans and the western world. There is a clash of cultures here. And
this is something that America has to come to grips with. If you grow up in a
country under sharia law, let's take Saudi Arabia where we think they visited.
OK, women can't drive. Women have to dress a certain way. Women can't go out in
public without a male relative. In other countries, sharia law, women need four
male eyewitnesses to prove rape. If you grow up in that country, how do we
ascertain if somebody is willing to assimilate, they want the breath of freedom
and a new life for themselves and their family, or if they want to bring their
ideas, their culture with them? Because I don't think you can read hearts and
minds or ascertain what people's hearts are, do you?

ZAFAR: So the way that we -- we're trying to pass this forward ideology is by
defining what we call true Islam. And make Muslims explain, do they agree with
the principles of true Islam?

HANNITY: Your religion has been hijacked. You can't deny your religion is being
hijacked.

ZAFAR: -- which is why we're talking about Muslims and non-Muslims tell us who
agrees with the definition of true Islam, that it does champion the empowerment
of women, that it calls for a separation of religion and state.

(CROSSTALK)

HANNITY: Robert, there's a problem. Radical -- Robert, radical Islamists take
the words out of the Koran and the Hadith and they use it to justify killing.
"Take neither Christians nor Jews for your friends," "jihad," "infidel," all
those words, they take it literally. They look at the life of Mohammed, a
warrior, his life, his background, and they feel that they ought to replicate
the caliphate, correct?

ROBERT SPENCER, "THE COMPLETE INFIDEL'S GUIDE TO ISIS" AUTHOR: Absolutely, yes.
And it's that lure of the Caliphate that has drawn 30,000 Muslims from around
the world to go to Iraq and Syria to join the Islamic State because they read
the same Koran including at least 250 Muslims from the United States.

HANNITY: What about -- and this goes to the heart of -- hold on a second. This
goes to the heart of the 10,000 refugees that the president wants to bring in
from Syria. Our intelligence director, the director of national intelligence
James Clapper, our FBI director, assistant FBI director, other intelligence
sources, Robert, they say that ISIS will infiltrate the refugee community coming
from Syria. Why would the president of the United States in light of Paris, in
light of San Bernardino, gamble with the lives of the American people?

SPENCER: It just seems as if he is refusing to acknowledge this problem at all.
The Islamic State has already boasted about placing jihadis among the refugees.
They have warned their people -- they have instructed their people, I should
say, not to appear overtly Islamic, to appear moderate and not to carry around a
Koran, not to go to mosque, just to wait until they're called upon to commit
mass murder in the name of Islam. And so there is absolutely no way to vet among
these refugees. And of course the Obama administration can't vet them anyway
because they won't even admit there is a jihad. How are they going to determine
who the jihadis are among the refugees?

HANNITY: Well said.

SPENCER: It's absolutely absurd.

HANNITY: Thank you both for being with us. We appreciate your time.

And coming up next on this busy news night right here on HANNITY.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, (D) PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We don't yet know what the
motives of the shooters are. But what we do know is that there are steps we can
take to make Americans safer.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: It's inexplicable. The president and the liberal cohorts rushing to
politicize yesterday's tragedy before we even know what was involved. So are
Democrats going to use this atrocity and try to restrict your Second Amendment
rights? We'll debate that next as HANNITY continues.

ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: FOX News alert. I'm Adam Houlsey in
Redlands, California, where the investigation continues into yesterday's attack
in nearby San Bernardino which killed 14, injured 21 others. We know of at least
three investigative sites here, including the one here in Redlands which
continues.

This is where this couple lived. And FBI is still here going through the
apartment. They finished going throughout car earlier today and the garage out
back. They have found a plethora of evidence that leads them to believe a number
of things, that, one, this couple may have been heading to a second attack or
planned a second attack. The first attack yesterday was done because they knew
it would be successful because it was a soft target.

They're also looking at the money trail. They don't believe the couple could
have afforded what they think is more than $30,000 in supplies that is produced
the explosive pipe-bombs as well as the ammunition and weapons. They say that
money trail could potentially lead to outside the country.

Now, we do know that country of Saudi Arabia said both the couple was there last
year for nine days the investigators are telling us. They're now going on a
theory that possibly she radicalized him and she may have been the one who had
the training.

A lot of information as this investigation continues here not only here locally
but also across the state, across the country, and around the globe as they look
for possible terror connections. We'll keep you updated throughout the night as
well as tomorrow on this case. In the meantime, I'm Adam Housley. Now back to
HANNITY.

HANNITY: And welcome back to HANNITY. So as the city of San Bernardino continues
to come to grips with the horrific shooting yesterday that took the lives of 14
innocent people and injured 21 more, well, you have some people on the left
politicizing this tragedy. Now yesterday President Obama just after hearing the
news, this is what he does.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

OBAMA: We have a pattern now of mass shootings in this country that has no
parallel anywhere else in the world. And there's some steps we can take not to
eliminate every one of these mass shootings, but to improve the odds that they
don't happen as frequently.

We don't yet know what the motives of the shooters are. But what we do know is
there are steps we can take to make Americans safer.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: The president is not the only Democrat who uses every opportunity that
he can to push through a radical gun control agenda. Here's what Hillary Clinton
said yesterday before the world learned about the San Bernardino shooting.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HILLARY CLINTON, (D) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: And 90 Americans a day die from gun
violence, homicide, suicide, tragic, avoidable accidents, 33,000 Americans a
year die. It is time for us to say we're going to have comprehensive background
checks. We're going to close the gun show loophole. We're going to close the
online loopholes, close the Charleston loophole, and the immunity for the gun
makers and sellers.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: Joining us now with reaction, the editor in chief of Lifezette.com
Laura Ingraham and the executive director of the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence
Josh Horwitz. Josh, let me ask a simple question. I've been a pistol marksman
since I'm 11-years-old. I have license carry permits in Rhode Island, Alabama,
Georgia, and New York. If there, God forbid, is ever a moment in your life where
a crazy radical Islamist comes in to shoot you, you would want me in the room
with you armed with my weapon?

JOSH HORWITZ, COALITION TO STOP GUN VIOLENCE: Well, I don't know your level of
training.

HANNITY: I've been trained since I'm 11. I'm a marksman, sir.

HORWITZ: If you're trained like law enforcement and you train regularly and you
know what you're doing you can understand the situation - -

HANNITY: But you'd like me there, wouldn't you?

HORWITZ: But let me finish my point. There actually was a concealed carry person
on scene last time and it was too confusing for them. So I think we need to
divorce this issue of whether we need --

HANNITY: No I don't think so, because it's a reality.

(CROSSTALK)

HANNITY: It's a reality lives can be saved. In other words, when they were
reloading the clips and shooting 75 bullets, Laura, at innocent people, that
might have been a moment where they could have been taken down. They weren't
wearing bullet-proof vests, Laura Ingraham.

LAURA INGRAHAM, EDITOR IN CHIEF, LIFEZETTE.COM: First of all, Sean, I'd like to
be in the room with you. I'm just going to be on the record saying. Whether you
train every day, whether you train six months ago, or whether you're a
law-abiding citizen with a pragmatic prudence sense of self-defense.

We have a lot of Americans today who are watching the show who are living in
fear. They're in high crime areas where it's very difficult to purchase a gun.
It's very difficult for many single women to own firearms in in many
metropolitan areas.

The poorest of the people, the most vulnerable Americans are the ones who suffer
most from this reflexive attitude that guns are the problem. I reject any
opportunity that the left is taking to blame law abiding gun owners or the
Second Amendment folks through what happened yesterday. It was a horrific act by
criminal people of an Islamic background. We'll find out what that had to do
with all of this. But, you know, shifting this to some gun control argument is
predictable and, frankly, not helpful at all. I'm sure Josh is a great guy. But
Josh, we're leaving people vulnerable out there, and gun control will do nothing
to save the lives of innocent people.

HORWITZ: The bigger question is you talked about, you know, I listened to the
last section. You already talked about how the folks are probable terrorists. I
don't know that, but let's say they are. Why are we making it so easy for them
to get firearms? There are two questions here. You have the self-defense
question. I get that. But the bigger question is we have people on the terrorist
watch list today who are able to buy firearms. How can we allow terrorists to
get firearms, especially assault weapons in this country? We need to do a far
better job.

And so we need to -- these are two different questions. I understand the
self-defense question. But we are allowing people who are dangerous, where there
are people that have violent histories of crimes or people on the terrorist
watch list, why are we allowing them to do that.

INGRAHAM: You must know something I don't know. I call this the no- fly law, the
no-fly list or the terrorism list. If people cared about all these issues, if,
Josh, if you cared a lot about this criminality in the United States, I'm sure
you'd be leading the charge to shut down the border, to close up all this
outrageous migration of criminals in our country that have been let loose on the
streets of the United States today. I don't hear any of the anti-gun people out
there talking about the 179,000 criminal alien who are now on our streets. So
forgive me if I don't think there is a lot of credibility on this issue.

We have a criminal problem in the United States. We do not have a gun owner
problem in the United States. These were criminals. They had pressure cooker it
looks like technology bombs. You don't have to go to a gun store to get a
pressure cooker the last time I checked.

HANNITY: We have to leave it there. Laura, well done. Thank you. Appreciate it.

And coming up next tonight here on HANNITY.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Gunshots! Those are gun shots! Those are gun shots!

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: When we come back, more reaction to yesterday's shooting in San
Bernardino. Plus we'll play you video that proves why cops lives matter. We'll
show you bravery. If you haven't seen it, it will amaze you and inspire you,
straight ahead.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Those are gunshots. Those are gunshots. Those are gunshots.
Oh, there is gunfire, right now. Oh, damn. They got him right there.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: Unbelievable video taken yesterday during the suspect shootout with
police. Now another video has emerged showing police evacuating survivors at the
Inland Regional Center. And one officer telling the group, "I'll take the bullet
before you do." Want to know where blue lives matter? Watch this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Sir? Sir, keep your hands where I can see them.

Thank you, thank you. I'll take the bullet, relax, I'll take the bullet before
you, that is for damn sure. Just be cool, OK?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: "I'll take the bullet, relax, "I'll take the bullet before you, that's
for damn sure." Here with reaction, former NYPD detective, our friend Bo Dietl,
and our other friend who we don't get to see that often, the great attorney
general of the great state of Florida Pam Bondi. Doesn't that prove a lot, that
video? For all the talk about you hear one case of one officer, all the good
officers, I'll take a bullet before you, that's for damn sure.

PAMELA BONDI, FLORIDA ATTORNEY GENERAL: Sean, I've been to many police officers'
funerals, some good friends of mine. And they would do it again, their family
members say. And every day these great men and women go out to protect and take
care of us. And I tell everyone if you see a police officer, you thank them,
because they are out there making it safe for us to go to church, for our kids
to go to school, for us to go to work.

HANNITY: I've got to tell you, it's unbelievable. I want to ask you a different
question. I want to put up "The New York Daily News" headline today, because
this is so outrageous. "God isn't fixing this." And they put Republicans tweets
out that said they're in our thoughts and prayers. "God isn't fixing this,"
making this about gun control, whereas the other New York tabloid, "The New York
Post" actually put up Muslim killers and terror, there is a couple that
slaughters 14 in California. You're convinced now this is terror, as I am.

BO DIETL, FORMER NYPD DETECTIVE: I call it. Last night I questioned it. I saw
the evidence come out with the 12 bombs and how they were making them. I texted
you this morning and said, you know what, I'm 100 percent.

HANNITY: It was 6:00 a.m.

DIETL: This was a Muslim terrorist attack. You know what, OK, take the firearms
away. What are you going to do with the 12 damn bombs? They are going to kill
people. What are you going to do, stop selling stuff to make bombs next? This is
the most-ridiculous thing. And all these Democrats that are jumping on the
bandwagon, we have got 14 dead people there and another 20 some people that are
not going home for Christmas, and this really upsets me.

HANNITY: Let me ask Pam this question. You're talking about 15 pipe bombs,
you're talking about 5,000 plus rounds of ammunition, you're talking about the
equipment to make IEDs. You have the Saudi connection, the Pakistani passport,
the father saying he's a devout Muslim, and the report that came out that in
fact he had been radicalized, what is an intelligent person supposed to
conclude?

BONDI: Everything points to terrorism. Of course it points to terrorism. The
investigation has to conclude, Bo know that. But everything we're hearing and
seeing now, that is what it's demonstrating. You know, Sean, guns, they're
politicizing this, just like you say, and shame on them for criticizing us for
wanting to pray for the victim. They put us --

HANNITY: They've been attacking you in Florida because of your support for the
Second Amendment.

BONDI: I get attacked all the time because I believe in the Second Amendment.

HANNITY: Last word, Bo?

DIETL: You have got this Valerie Jarrett that's running this country in the Oval
Office over there. I want to tell you right now --

HANNITY: Valerie Jarrett.

DIETL: That one, too. I really don't care what her name is. But this is coming
down from the White House, and they're putting the brakes on it. We have to get
the FBI director to step up and say this was an act of terrorism.

HANNITY: All right, thank you both for being with us. Pam, good to see you.

BONDI: Sean, you too.

HANNITY: And you too, Bo.

Coming up, when we come back we need your help. Our "Question of the Day" is
next.

HANNITY: And time for our "Question of the Day." Should we be spying on mosques
that we expect or think have extremist ties? Just go to Facebook.com/SeanHannity
@SeanHannity on Twitter and let us know what you think.

Unfortunately that is all the time we have left this evening. Thank you for
being with us. We'll see you back here tomorrow night.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120301cb.253

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               39 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            December 4, 2015 Friday

                 SHOW: YOUR WORLD WITH NEIL CAVUTO 4:06 PM EST

Control Risks - Senior Vice President Interview

BYLINE: Neil Cavuto

GUESTS: Bill Daly

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 612  words


NEIL CAVUTO, HOST: Want to get the read from this from former FBI investigator
Bill Daly.

Bill, first on this attorney general appearance with the FBI director. As you
know, the administration has been criticized somewhat in the past for not saying
this was a terrorist act. The FBI director obviously felt compelled through his
investigation and research to say otherwise.

What do you make of just that?

BILL DALY, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, CONTROL RISKS: Well, certainly.

And I have had the pressure of meeting Director Comey. I can tell you, he is a
very forthright, direct person, who has -- who says that the FBI will
investigate things without -- without view of political standing of anyone or
anything.

So, I believe that he is speaking for both the FBI, as well as the Justice
Department. Don`t forget, he reports into Loretta Lynch, so he is basically
having his boss sit next to him, head of the Justice Department.

CAVUTO: Yes. That`s what made it weird. Right? That`s what made it weird. And it
raised this thought, well, maybe they`re trying to rein him in or not overdo the
terrorist angle or he might let something slip out, like radical Islam. I don`t
know, what it is unusual, is it not?

DALY: Well, I mean, often you see FBI directors giving press conferences with
attorney generals.

CAVUTO: OK.

DALY: When you look back to those days when Ashcroft was standing next to the
FBI director as well. And so I don`t think it`s that unusual.

CAVUTO: All right.

DALY: I mean, speaking parts aside, I don`t think it`s unusual. And I also think
that...

CAVUTO: Well, by the way, we will have John Ashcroft on to address that.

But you`re quite right. It`s just the timing of this and given the reluctance to
use certain language, I just found it interesting. But that could be just me.

I want to switch gears a little bit to the ISIS connection. They`re ruling that
out as being exclusively -- not ruling it out, but they`re not jumping to the
conclusion that it`s an ISIS connection. But we do know as well that Tashfeen
Malik, the 27-year-old wife of Syed Farook, did in fact claim her allegiance to
ISIS via Facebook apparently on the day of those attacks.

What is -- as someone who investigates this stuff, how would you start piecing
that together, questioning that, building on that?

DALY: Well, certainly, all the things we have been talking about here, all the
electronic evidence that`s been gathered and that perhaps the suspects in this
case, the individuals thought they destroyed, will be very helpful in
determining exactly what, not only just their intent, as we know, beyond what
the shootings took place, but also what was driving them.

And, sometimes, Neil, I think we are seeing a convergence here. We are seeing a
convergence of -- perhaps we look it`s through the optic of whether it`s ISIS or
whether it`s Al Qaeda, but in some ways, people can be driven just by the
general ideology and whether -- whether we draw that together to be -- or
separated, I really think it doesn`t matter at this particular point.

I think it will matter when we get down to exactly were there any connections
that were made with people who belong to those organizations or who are known or
suspected to be part of them?

So I think from the standpoint of her making the pronouncement, of which we now
-- at least it`s been assaulted -- was done just moments before the shootings,
it certainly didn`t give authorities time to react to that or to kind of track
her, because it was done contemporaneous with the incident.

CAVUTO: Well, that -- yes, that`s what the Facebook executive is saying.

Bill Daly, thank you very much, my friend.

I appreciate it.

DALY: Very welcome.

CAVUTO: All right.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120401cb.140

DOCUMENT-TYPE: INTERVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               40 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            December 4, 2015 Friday

                 SHOW: YOUR WORLD WITH NEIL CAVUTO 4:25 PM EST

Interview With Former U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft

BYLINE: Neil Cavuto

GUESTS: John Ashcroft

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 1065  words


NEIL CAVUTO, HOST: So, is it a big deal when you see these two guys seated
together?

Now, we had that news that FBI Director Comey wanted to make an announce,
presumably to say, yes, this was a terror event, what went down in San
Bernardino, California. Then we hear later on Loretta Lynch, the attorney
general, was going to be there. The appearance seemed to be of baby- sitting or
watching him.

Now, that`s a quick leap that many -- many reporters make, and you know
reporters. They can be horrible human beings.

Doesn`t former Attorney General John Ashcroft know that? He joins us right now.

Mr. Attorney General, I guess it immediately triggers suspicion the
administration wanted to dial Comey back on the terrorism thing. Do you think
that was the case?

JOHN ASHCROFT, FORMER U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL: I have no way of knowing.

Let me just say that, in 9/11 circumstances, Robert Mueller and I were together,
and it was to indicate that far more than the FBI was being committed to the
investigation. The Justice Department had a robust set of additional resources,
including the Immigration and Naturalization Services at that time...

CAVUTO: OK.

ASHCROFT: ... the U.S. Marshals Service.

So, I don`t think you can draw anything from it. I would hope that it signaled
that not just the FBI, but all the resources that might otherwise be involved in
preventing an additional occurrence would be devoted to this effort to stop this
kind of abuse.

CAVUTO: Well, you know, what seated that, as you know, Mr. Attorney General,
this notion that the administration seemed very reluctant early on to call this
terrorism, not so much the FBI or the FBI director.

And, then, lo and behold, the FBI is going to make a statement. Obviously, he
has to clear that through the attorney general. I don`t know procedure. You know
it better than I. And then she appears with him.

You don`t read anything into that and accept at face value that they`re both in
synch on dealing with this?

ASHCROFT: Well, I would hope they`re both in synch on dealing with it.

CAVUTO: OK.

ASHCROFT: I would expect them to be in synch on dealing with it.

There`s no way of knowing whether there were controls or other efforts made to
manage the -- quote -- "message."

CAVUTO: All right. All right.

You`re always a class act, even when I try to push you into something
controversial.

Let me ask you as well about what Chris Christie was talking about, sir, this
notion that there was an intelligence communication breakdown, and if that is
the case, it would be very akin to what we saw prior to 9/11, where agencies
weren`t talking to each other.

We developed Homeland Security to make sure that sort of thing didn`t happen.
But it has stumbled. We saw it with the Tsarnaev brothers in Boston, that
national officials, the FBI and others, NSA, weren`t communicating to the local
police force. We certainly saw it in Paris.

We have seen it in London. We have seen it played out, that it is a problem. Is
it a problem, a big problem?

ASHCROFT: Well, communication is always a problem, and time is of the essence in
these matters.

CAVUTO: Yes.

ASHCROFT: And the quicker you develop the full range of authorities to bring
them to bear in an investigation, the more likely you are to be able to learn
what you need to prevent the next occurrence.

And so characterizing this as a terrorism investigation really helps, because it
gives you access to a kind of intelligence that would come through previous FISA
records and through the use of intelligence material that might not otherwise be
available.

It makes you -- gives you access to cooperation with certain foreign sources
that wouldn`t otherwise be cooperative. So, it`s very important that you have a
terrorism investigation when you have an act which is arguably, and which
appears to be, manifestly terrorist in nature.

So -- and if you wait until the investigation is over to deploy these additional
tools, that`s self-defeating. So, when you have -- we had the tradecraft here of
terrorism, the stockpiling, the destruction of the digital trail, the audit
trail, the -- and, frankly, the announcement of all these things may actually
keep cooperators to destroy other things that might provide the trail to them.

So, the strategy, the strategic effort that is made in these investigations and
how much is said and not said can really make a difference in terms of whether
or not you can stop the next one.

CAVUTO: All right.

You know, I wanted to get your thoughts on Hussam Ayloush. He is the L.A.
director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations, better known as CAIR. And
he spoke to CNN that we`re, that is the United States, partly responsible for
Islamic terrorism.

I want you to react to this. This is from CNN.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HUSSAM AYLOUSH, LOS ANGELES DIRECTOR, COUNCIL ON AMERICAN-ISLAMIC RELATIONS:
Let`s not forget that some of our own foreign policy as Americans, as the West,
have fueled that extremism.

When we support cruel leaders in Egypt or other places, when we support
dictatorships, repressive regimes around the world that push people over to the
edge, then they became extremists, then they become terrorists, we are partly
responsible.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CAVUTO: Isn`t that blaming the victim again? Didn`t we do that after 9/11?

ASHCROFT: Well, you know, our president has really said that America is the
problem, not the solution, in so many cases, and apologizing and saying that we
are not the agent of liberty and freedom.

Of course, liberty and freedom are not part of the inventory of things respected
by ISIL. They don`t like liberty. They don`t want freedom. They want Sharia law.
They want its imposition. They make no apology for that

And if you read carefully what ISIS is about, it`s about an interpretation of
the Muslim religion that was -- is well over 1,000 years old and it`s very
literal. It`s about decapitation. It`s about amputation. It`s about crucifixion.
And it`s about provoking a cataclysmic end to the world.

And this is not our fault. This is something that is believed by this group of
individuals. And they are attracted by it and want to participate in having it
come true. The rest of the world, and many Muslims are not part of that, but for
us to deny that that`s what it is, is for us to stick our head in the sand and
stick it in pretty deeply.

CAVUTO: John Ashcroft, good seeing you. Thank you very much.

ASHCROFT: My honor.

CAVUTO: All right.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120402cb.140

DOCUMENT-TYPE: INTERVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               41 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            December 4, 2015 Friday

                 SHOW: YOUR WORLD WITH NEIL CAVUTO 4:52 PM EST

The New Voice - CEO Interview

BYLINE: Neil Cavuto

GUESTS: Herman Cain

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 730  words


NEIL CAVUTO, HOST: Well, I was just waiting for the president to respond to
Donald Trump`s remark lambasting the president for pushing climate change as one
of the dumbest priorities he`s ever heard in politics.

President Obama finally did get that chance to respond today. Take a look.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

QUESTION: Donald Trump, who is the front-runner on the Republican side, said
your remarks were "one of the dumbest statements I have ever heard in politics."

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Yes.

Well, you know, Mr. Trump should run back a tape recorder on some of the stuff
he`s said.

(LAUGHTER)

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CAVUTO: To Herman Cain, introducing Donald Trump at a big rally on Wednesday,
big supporter of Donald Trump.

What did you think of the president`s kind of "away with you" response?

HERMAN CAIN, CEO, THE NEW VOICE: The president has gone from assuming that the
American people are gullible to assuming that the American people are simply
stupid.

Donald Trump may say some things that irritate people, but he never assumes that
people are stupid or gullible. That`s the difference between what Donald Trump
said and what the president said, Neil, plain and simple.

CAVUTO: Now, what Trump was criticizing was the president prioritizing climate
change this past week, when all this other stuff is going on.

CAIN: Yes.

CAVUTO: It was actually last week.

And I`m wondering if there is this -- this issue that Trump brought out that
revealed a real weakness for the president, because even some Democrats have
privately said his timing was off, that is, the president`s timing.

CAIN: That`s just one of the weaknesses of President Obama that has been
revealed.

His other weakness is, he acts as if he is clueless on the fact that this
economy is stalled. He wants people to believe that a 2 percent GDP growth is
the new normal. That doesn`t have to be. He wants people to believe that we can
ignore the spiraling national debt.

So, he is using climate change not only to push a political agenda, but he`s
using climate change to divert the attention of the American people, with the
help of the media, that climate change is more important than the economy, more
important than national security, and a whole list of other important things.

That`s what the president is doing. So he`s the one that`s not being realistic
about the statements that he`s making, because he`s assuming that the American
people are stupid. More and more people are waking up and saying, we are not
stupid.

CAVUTO: But I -- I -- you know, obviously, you want to forgive -- or the
president wants to just sort of dismiss some of these statements out of hand.

But, you know, I`m wondering, Herman, as someone who is backing Donald Trump, he
has said some things that, you know, raise eyebrows, "I saw thousands protesting
and cheering right after 9/11."

Do you get a sense that Trump overdoes it, that there`s a particle of truth to
that, there were people celebrating in various communities after 9/11, but not
thousands, and that that penchant for maybe exaggerating is going to come back
and bite him?

CAIN: Well, maybe the number that he quoted was not necessarily accurate, but
there have been three sources that have said people were celebrating...

CAVUTO: No doubt, no doubt.

CAIN: ... when the...

CAVUTO: No doubt.

CAIN: ... no doubt, when the -- when the towers...

CAVUTO: But do you think it hurts his case when he assigns a number like that to
it and maybe...

CAIN: No, I don`t think so.

CAVUTO: You don`t?

CAIN: I don`t think so. And let me...

CAVUTO: Well, clearly, the polls prove it. Clearly, you know, you`re right. The
polls prove it.

CAIN: Right. Exactly. That`s exactly what I was going to say.

If you look at the latest Quinnipiac poll, it shows Donald Trump at least twice
the nearest competitor in the number two position.

CAVUTO: Yes.

CAIN: The latest CNN poll, it is not just two times. It is two times- plus. So,
here`s what I think.

CAVUTO: No, you`re right. It hasn`t hurt him. It hasn`t hurt him, Herman.

CAIN: Exactly.

CAVUTO: All right.

CAIN: So the American -- here`s what the American people are saying, in my
opinion.

They are more concerned about having a leader and a fighter in the White
House...

CAVUTO: All right.

CAIN: ... than they are worried about whether or not somebody exaggerated a
number relative to something else.

CAVUTO: Got you.

All right, Herman Cain, thank you very much.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120403cb.140

DOCUMENT-TYPE: INTERVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               42 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            December 4, 2015 Friday

                           SHOW: THE FIVE 5:00 PM EST

THE FIVE for December 4, 2015

BYLINE: Kimberly Guilfoyle, Eric Bolling, Dana Perino, Adam Housley

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 10400  words


KIMBERLY GUILFOYLE, THE FIVE SHOW CO-HOST: This is a Fox News alert. Hello,
everyone. I'm Kimberly Guilfoyle and welcome to The Five. We're awaiting a news
conference in Los Angeles from the family of Syed Farook, the male suspect in
the San Bernardino attack. We're going to bring that to you as soon as it
begins. However, while we wait, the government is finally saying this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DAVID BOWDICH, ASSISTANT DIRECTOR IN CHARGE OF FBI'S L.A. OFFICE: As of today,
based on the information and the facts as we know them, we are now investigating
these horrific acts as an act of terrorism.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GUILFOYLE: That announcement was followed by an update from FBI director James
Comey.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

JAMES COMEY, DIRECTOR OF FBI: So far, we have no indication that these killers
are part of an organized larger group or form part of a cell. There's no
indication that they are part of a network. There is nothing in our holdings
about these two killers. There were no contacts between either of the killers
and subjects of our investigations. There were of such a significance that it
raised these killers up on to our radar screen. We're obviously looking very
closely at those contacts, but I would not want you to over-index on that just
yet.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GUILFOYLE: Well, it was terror. And that makes Wednesday's shooting in San
Bernardino the deadliest terror attack on U.S. soil since 9/11. We have also
learned that the female suspect, Tashfeen Malik, had pledged her allegiance to
ISIS via Facebook, just as the deadly attack began. And we've gotten a look
inside the home of the married terrorists where you can you see there are
tapestries with Arabic writing hung on the walls with copies of the Koran. Let's
go now to Fox's Adam Housley, outside the home in Redlands, California with the
very latest. Adam?

ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, Kimberly, as we've been
talking about for the last couple of days, investigators who are on the ground
knew from very long, they felt it was a terrorist incident. We know they were
getting pressures from above them to be very delicate about that. And then we
were tipped off last evening that this press conference would happen today. That
it would not come from Washington, but it come from the assistant director here
on the ground, and he would indeed call this a terrorist incident.

Again, not much of a surprise to those who've been here for the last couple of
days, because it's been pointing in that direction from very early on. They told
us that. What was interesting to us is the fact that he said that there is no
connection so far to anybody on an international level when it came to the
terrorist types of groups. I'll tell you that the -- those investigating this,
obviously have, are looking down that path. They say they believe that others
were involved in this. They won't say whether that's domestically or
internationally. They do also believe that somebody else helped fund this. As
one said to me, there's no way this couple could have afforded all this stuff.
And that has them believing that.

But the wife is still a bit of a mystery. I have learned that her father, a
Pakistani descent had been living recently in Saudi Arabia. He was -- I'm told a
postal worker of some sort in Pakistan, but in Saudi Arabia, he was living under
quote, "comfortable circumstances."

GUILFOYLE: OK. So does anybody have a follow-up question for him based on that?
And again, you're taking a live look there at the presser, where we're expecting
the attorney of the family to come forward to speak, David Chesley. So we'll see
what he has to say when we get there, but Dana?

DANA PERINO, THE FIVE SHOW CO-HOST: Well, there might not be a good answer to
this, but I'm just curious, Adam, maybe you know the answer. Why do we not have
a photograph or a picture of the wife?

GUILFOYLE: Wife, yeah.

HOUSLEY: Well, you know, we're trying to get that we-- we obviously handled this
very delicately. Obviously, some people went in and went through that house in a
very questionable way, once it was opened up. I can tell you that the FBI has
told me, not only here locally, but nationally, that they got everything they
needed to get out of that house. They went through it inch by inch. And this is
kind of a normal process where they hand it back to the owner and the owner can
do what they want to with it.

I can tell you there are pictures inside. One reason why they don't have a lot
of photos of this woman is because -- and they've been calling her a bit
mysterious from the beginning. I also know there are some photos out there that
the officials do have. I'm not sure why they haven't released them to us. We
haven't had a chance to get a comment on that yet. It is a bit of a mystery. I
do agree with him on that. And that has been has hampered the investigation a
little bit in the sense they don't have the same kind of trail that they have on
him and his family, obviously.

PERINO: All right.

ERIC BOLLING, THE FIVE SHOW CO-HOST: Hey, Adam, it's Bolling. The money trail is
very interesting to me. I think you had reported at some point today that the
money trail led outside the United States. Would you comment on that? And also
James Comey today, made a comment that really struck me, stood out. He said a
lot of the evidence doesn't make sense. Any idea what he means by that?

HOUSLEY: Yes. Well, part of the problem they're having, Eric, is they -- and
they still haven't ruled out al-Qaeda on this. It was a situation where they
have some al-Qaeda connections and then she pledged allegiance to ISIS. There
are a lot of those things are kind of theories that they're working on. And
because she's so mysterious in this whole back and forth between Pakistan and
Saudi Arabia with her, her father's connection, that's why they -- some things
don't make sense. I will tell you there's a reason why Loretta Lynch was
standing there. It was to insure that he didn't go too far. I got that not only
from Capitol Hill, but from here. And we knew that that was gonna happen an hour
and a half before the press conference even took place. As for the money trail,
those investigating this case.

GUILFOYLE: OK.

HOUSLEY: Believe that might.

GUILFOYLE: Adam, I got it.

HOUSLEY: Outside the country and (inaudible) the family.

GUILFOYLE: Yup. Thanks, Adam.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MOHAMMAD ABUERSHAID, FAROOK FAMILY ATTORNEY: This is David Chesley, who
represents the Farook family in this matter, M-O-H-A-M-M-A-D. Last name is
Abuershaid, A-B-U-E-R-S-H-A-I-D.

DAVID CHESLEY, FAROOK FAMILY ATTORNEY: And I'm David Chesley, D-A-V-I-D C-
H-E-S-L-E-Y.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (inaudible).

CHESLEY: We don't represent the shooters, Syed Farook or Tashfeen Malik. We do
represent the brother-in-law and the mother of Syed Farook, and also his
brothers and sisters.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Who is the brother-in-law?

ABUERSHAID: Farhan Khan.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Can you guys go more in the middle? There you go.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: How many brothers and sisters are they?

ABUERSHAID: There are two sisters and there's one brother, Raheel.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (inaudible).

ABUERSHAID: Syed, yes.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Syed or Tashfeen?

ABUERSHAID: Syed (inaudible).

CHESLEY: So essentially, the message that we want to give is that what we'd like
to say on behalf of the families and the Muslim community in general is that,
just as late as 1:00 p.m. today, the FBI Chief James Comey came out and said
that there was no sign that the alleged shooters belonged to a larger
organization, like a larger organized terrorist group or terrorist cell. So I, I
mean they're trying to or they, they have come up with some things where they're
trying to say that they were inspired by some groups. But there hasn't been any
clear smoking gun evidence that they were part of any particular cell or any
group. They're pointing to things that they saw on Facebook, under different
account names in the case of Tashfeen Malik. She supposedly had a Facebook
account set up under a different name that they say visited some, some group
that may have been, had ties to, you know, to more, you know.

(CROSSTALK)

ABUERSHAID: More information keeps coming out. We're going to be able to
identify which facts are accurate and which facts are not. And that is the whole
point of us meeting with the FBI. We've been in open communication with the
agents of the FBI. We've been at their offices in riverside, we were there for
about four hours yesterday, and we'll be finishing up on Monday, hopefully with
some of the other family members. As more facts come out about the types of
relationships that each individual family member had, we're going to be relating
that to you guys as well.

CHESLEY: Yeah.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What can you say right now? What do you know about
(inaudible)?

CHESLEY: What we can say from our four-hour interview or the investigation that
took place with the FBI yesterday is that none of the family members had any
idea that this was going to take place. They were totally shocked. That is
Raheel, Saira and Eba, that is the brother and sisters of the alleged shooter
had no idea, to the point where when they got word that there was an incident
that had taken place, they were worried about the health and safety of Syed and
Tashfeen, because they had so -- it was just -- there's never been any evidence
that either of the two alleged shooters were aggressive, had extremist views.
They were totally shocked that this could take place, as shocked as anybody else
was.

ABUERSHAID: And the family members knew Tashfeen, a sister-in-law. That's what
then you are asked. They had a basic relationship with her. It wasn't overly
close, but it wasn't too distant. So the information that we have right now was
shocking and surprising. The family was found out the information that actually
came out. There's no official, there's no official discrimination of what the
reason was when we actually were discussing everything with the FBI yesterday.
And they're still going through their facts and their diligence as we are as
well.

CHESLEY: If there's anything remarkable about the investigation that took place
yesterday, it is that no ties could really be established to the point of
frustration on the part of the FBI. I mean you know if there's, if the most
evidence there is to any affiliation is a Facebook account under another
person's name, that supposedly just visited some site, then that's, then that's
hardly anything at all. And throughout the whole process of the investigation
yesterday, it got to the point where the FBI actually said look, let us explain
ourselves. We're trying to find evidence or information that could cause us to
believe that that the -- that Syed Farook was in some way affiliated with this
incident. Like something inspired him to be involved in this incident. And --
but the problem we're having is that we're not finding any evidence of any
behavior that would be -- that would show us that this would be the alleged
shooter. And, so, you know, why is that happening? And we were -- and we're all
like, well, we don't have any explanation for you, other than that there is no
evidence. None of the family knew of him as being extreme or aggressive or
having kind -- any extreme religious views.

ABUERSHAID: And I think what the media should also be cautious about is just
because he had a religion that he was Muslim. It had nothing to do with these
acts. Islam does not agreeing, does not support any type of actions that occur
like this. It does not support killing, it does not support murder of innocent
individuals, and the family would never support anything like this. And they're
giving their hearts and their prayers and everything else they can do to assist
the victims that lost their lives that day as well.

(CROSSTALK)

CHESLEY: Well, see.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (inaudible).

ABUERSHAID: The FBI actually hasn't made.

(CROSSTALK)

ABUERSHAID: The media is leading with just assuming that this is a terrorist
situation.

The point that the FBI is making is there's an investigation into this as a
possible terrorist act.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: But the FBI is making that there has investigation with this
and causing a terrorist attack.

ABUERSHAID: I think every investigation the FBI does when it's involving a
Muslim, will involve some type of terrorist investigation.

(CROSSTALK)

ABUERSHAID: I guess.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're just relaying the information that they're.

ABUERSHAID: We're not.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What do you think the motive is then for the shooting?

CHESLEY: I mean there's, there was, there was information about the fact that
his co-workers kind of made fun of him for example, and his beard. He was a very
isolated.

ABUERSHAID: Renewed.

CHESLEY: Introverted individual with really no friends that we could identify,
like maybe one friend or no friends. And so, I guess what we would say is that
when an incident happens like this, when a Christian goes to shoot up a Planned
Parenthood or an extreme catholic goes and bombs an abortion clinic, all the
headlines don't say, extremist radical Christian Catholic. Christian catholic,
Christian catholic. Just like right now, every headline is saying Muslim, and
attaching Muslim to it, I think there's a tendency to take a cookie-cutter
version or a paradigm of a terrorist type event and superimpose it on a
situation just because that person is a Muslim belief or Muslim Tradition. And I
don't think we should jump to too many conclusions, in particular, because we
need to protect the Muslim community. And right now we're seeing a lot of
infringements on upon, upon rights that are important to all of us. By this I
mean we're talking about political candidates that could very likely be our next
president who are saying things like we should register all Muslims, and that
mosques should be investigated and looked into. Or that the families of
terrorists should be killed without due process. Or the latest thing that was
said was that it was known that it was gonna -- that it was a terrorist act that
was committed, simply because the person had an Islamic last name. And I think
any of us sitting here could say look, if somebody said that they knew a heinous
criminal act had been committed due to religion, just because it was a person of
a certain last name, and, let's say it was committed, it was alleged to be
committed on behalf of Christians, and you had a Christian last name. Or as
alleged to be committed on behalf of Jews and you had a Jewish last name. And
you're faith was constantly being attacked. I mean, there is -- I have so many
Muslim friends and so many people that I work with that are Muslim, and no one,
every Muslim community around the world has been in a state of remorse and
condemnation of these acts. No one supports it. Just as I think no Christian or
catholic would say, oh yeah, that's a good catholic that bombed that, that
abortion clinic or shot up that Planned Parenthood. But it's not even. We can't
even use that example. Because as of yet, like the FBI Chief James Comey said,
"There has been no evidence that they've found yet." This is his words in the
L.A. Times, as of 1:00 p.m. today. That they are linked to a larger organized
terrorist group or terrorist cell. All of there is and this is much to the
frustration I think of the FBI and everyone because we all want, we all want an
answer. We all are angry. We're all frustrated. We're all sad. We want justice.
But unfortunately, some things in life aren't as clear cut as that. And all
there is thus far is some nebulous thing that somebody looked at something on
Facebook. I mean, anyone of us may have looked at something on Facebook. It
doesn't mean we believe in it. I've checked out a Britney Spears post and I hate
Britney Spears music. It doesn't mean that you condone whatever you look at or
read or you fully believe and you're acting on behalf of whatever you look at or
read.

So we just have to be protective of religious freedom in our country, of our
Fourth Amendment rights. You know the -- just recently, the landlords let
journalists into the apartment of Syed Farook.

(CROSSTALK)

ABUERSHAID: You know there's media outlet (inaudible) who they are taking
pictures, people who were not, you know, either one of the suspects. They're
invading their personal space. They're sending some inappropriate pictures as
well. And I think this is the whole point of the FBI's investigations. It could
determine what level and what actually caused this. You know, as David says L.A.
Times has reported what James Comey has said, and we're just waiting to get more
information as well. I mean.

(CROSSTALK)

ABUERSHAID: What do you mean by favorable attitudes?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, that he supposed to express sympathy towards ISIS. What
you think will make of that?

CHESLEY: What evidence is there of that, I would ask? You know, what are you
pointing to? In what ways did they express sympathy?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The exact quote is, "The investigation so far is developing
indications radicalizations by the killers and potential inspirations by foreign
terrorist organizations. He didn't say that there just indications in part of a
global cell or bigger cell." These are his words, I mean.

CHESLEY: He's trying to say it was inspired by. But what I've read so far, I
mean, we're all learning because the investigation is ongoing. We're the
attorneys for the family, not the investigators, so none of us have all the
information right now. But from what I've read, all I've seen is that somebody
looked at something on Facebook. There was another thing -- there was another
article I read that said that the FBI had investigated people, who Syed Farook
allegedly spoke to. But even those people that the FBI had investigated, nothing
came up for any of those people. And this is the danger we're getting into. I
mean.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But -- are you saying that you do not believe that there
will be any connection to a foreign terror organization?

ABUERSHAID: I think what we're saying is that we still have to wait for the
investigation to be done before we make any type of determination.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Well, isn't that what the FBI is doing.

ABUERSHAID: I don't think that what.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The FBI is saying?

ABUERSHAID: I think that the reports that have been coming out now is that they
link it to a terrorist group or some type of.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They're investigating.

ABUERSHAID: They're investigating it. But until an investigation is done, there
cannot be made any type of determination of -- if there was a group, if there
was a connection to anybody, and the moment you start doing that.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So are you saying that that we should not be pursuing the
developments as they emerge, because the FBI is going through the process, and
it is the process.

ABUERSHAID: Yes.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And as they get information and they find out things, we're
reporting them.

ABUERSHAID: I think the idea of terrorist has been reported since this, this
incident happened. So I think as the more information comes out, then the media
can start making the report, and as we get information.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Shouldn't we report this?

ABUERSHAID: No. I'm saying that you guys shouldn't be making reports or
statements concerning that there's a connection to a terrorist group until there
is factual link.

(CROSSTALK)

CHESLEY: We're criminal defense attorneys, we look for actual evidence. So we
can't jump to conclusions as what we believe.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We.

CHESLEY: You know.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We listen to what the FBI says, because the FBI is
gathering evidence.

CHESLEY: Yes.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So we have to consider, we consider the FBI a credible
source.

CHESLEY: Right, yeah. I mean, I just think that what we're looking at is there
-- like i said, when there's, when the FBI chief has literally come out and said
that they've found no link to a larger terrorist group or a terrorist cell, I
think people need to listen to that and consider that. And every headline until,
until there is absolute clear evidence, every headline doesn't have to say,
Muslim massacre or Muslim shooters because it's cause -- it's going to cause
intolerance and what we need right now is forgiveness, I think. Although this
is, there were Muslim people and Muslim families involved in this incident. And
as a Christian -- as a primarily Christian nation, I think we're a people of
mercy and forgiveness. And I think we need to avoid bigotry, stereotyping,
anything that we would be uncomfortable happening to us as Christians, we should
try to avoid doing that to Muslims as well.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If the family.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So primarily your leader.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Represent.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Some of the reports you've heard that link these acts to
terrorism prematurely.

ABUERSHAID: I don't think we're here to criticize, I think we're here.

CHESLEY: We're here to protect the clients and they happen to be Muslims.

ABUERSHAID: And also.

CHESLEY: And the Muslim community. And also, to stand up for the victims and
grieve the victims and to say we're remorseful for what took place. And the
Muslim community doesn't support or condemn what took place, no Muslim does
nationwide. Every single Muslim leaders come out and said this is not a Muslim
act. When someone goes crazy and commits an act that could totally be
work-related, it doesn't make a statement on behalf of an entire religion. We're
trying to protect people, and at the same time, we're still in mourning for both
the family and the victims and it was tragic, it's horrible. And we're trying to
heal the nation I think, as a whole.

(CROSSTALK)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Did the family see any evidence of terrorism? Did they see
any evidence of disgruntlement in the workplace of.?

(CROSSTALK)

ABUERSHAID: There was a mention, where he got teased about his beard, but
there's nothing else about that. He usually, (inaudible) any type of jokes that
people might have made about his facial hair as appearance.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: That's what you're saying, not what you read.

ABUERSHAID: No, that's what the family said.

CHESLEY: Yeah.

(CROSSTALK)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Conversations of people you represents that they mention that
all, that the -- do these people ever discuss ISIS as just they general
conversation?

CHESLEY: They never did. And that's, and that's, you know, that's why we're just
-- we're being -- we're just, we're just making sure that we're not over-zealous
in our characterization of these events, one way or another, until, until very
-- until strong evidence comes out, showing that this was indeed affiliated with
something. And there -- I mean, I guess, I guess the frustration comes from we
sat through this four-hour interview with the FBI and.

ABUERSHAID: And investigation has not done yet. But still have more interviews
that we will be conducting with the FBI. And that's why I do caution on making
any type of judgment before everything is done.

CHESLEY: But also, during that investigation I would say, we as attorneys, as
criminal defense attorneys practicing for 10 years we're looking for evidence.
We're looking for things of substance to substantiate a link or a tie or
something, just as the FBI was. And when we sat there for four hours, being in
that interview with the family members, no one could identify any links or any
radical or extremist behavior, any attempt to be forceful or hostile or
aggressive in any way to force people to adhere to certain religious beliefs.
Any odd or strange or angry behavior before the time of the shooting, on behalf
of the alleged suspects, nothing was there. So it's not so much I'm siding with
someone way -- one way or the other, but I'm just objective -- being objective,
that's been my job all these years. And I'm just reporting to you what I've seen
during that investigation. There was, there was no evidence of anything. And
then what we're hearing now from the media, I'm just saying, from an objective
perspective has been very tenuous. So I just -- that's my feeling. I don't feel
like we ought to be over zealous in our characterization of the events until we
have additional evidence.

(CROSSTALK)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: These family members who obviously (inaudible). Brothers,
sister and.

(CROSSTALK)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They suspect.

ABUERSHAID: OK.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Did they ever see any evidence of what's been described by
police, bomb-making, large caches of ammunition? Anything to suggest.

ABUERSHAID: No, the family members knew that Syed had two handguns. And they
knew that he kept them locked up. So they are aware of that. And they also knew
he was licensed for it. The family members would have get- togethers on
occasion, but they wouldn't be going through the rest of the house and
inspecting the house. This was a brother that they had no idea, something like
this could happen.

CHESLEY: There was never anything like -- there was never any evidence of any of
these pipe bombs that were seen around. In addition, I would also just say -- I
mean, you know, it has been horrible. And you know, as Americans, we all want to
protect one another, make sure we're living in a safe and secure society. But,
you know, statements made about, for example the number of rounds that were
there. As a gun owner myself, I, myself probably have 4,000 or 5,000 rounds of
bullets that I keep at home. And the reason why you buy them in bulk is because
they're cheaper that way. And the government keeps on outlawing different,
different types of bullets and different types of guns at different times. And
then there will be shortages of bullets that will occur very commonly where
Homeland Security will order two million of a certain kind of bullet and you
can't get that bullet. It's not available for many months. So, especially if
you're target shooting, it's not at all uncommon to own 2,000, 3,000, 4,000
rounds to have with you, and you can get them at a cheap price, you stock up.

And you know, one of the main things I want to make sure happens is that not
only is anyone discriminated against as a result of this incident, but that we
continue to protect our freedom of religion and also our Second Amendment right
to bear arms. We can't have this announcement by the president every time
there's an incident like this that we need to ban all guns. Those rights are
important to us as Americans, we die for those rights. And they shouldn't be
denied.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Did the family have anything to say about Tashfeen's
education, to know the background of her education?

ABUERSHAID: All we know about Tashfeen's education is that she grew up in
Pakistan at about the age of 18 to 21 years of age, she moved over to Saudi
Arabia. She was educated. But there was nothing to show that -- I've read some
reports that she was a P.T. or a pharmacist.

(CROSSTALK)

ABUERSHAID: There's nothing from the family other than education.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She's not a pharmacist?

ABUERSHAID: She is not a pharmacist over here. I mean, she look.

(CROSSTALK)

ABUERSHAID: She was a housewife. She took care of the child. The mother lived
with them at the house, so she was primarily a housewife. She had only come over
here in 2014.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: How do you talk about at her at the moment?

ABUERSHAID: I'm not really once.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I mean, from the family. What from, what the family had to
say.

ABUERSHAID: Well, she's only been a mother for about six months. So the family
just knew her as, you know, she was caring. She was soft-spoken, this very basic
information what they've seen of her.

CHESLEY: She was like a typical housewife.

(CROSSTALK)

ABUERSHAID: She spoke English and she did speak Urdu as well, but it was broken
English.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But how she assimilating into the country, into the
culture?

ABUERSHAID: Well, she -- for the year that she was here, she was assimilating
fine.

CHESLEY: She did maintain certain traditions from what I understand, in terms of
fasting and prayer five times a day. She chose not to drive voluntarily. But
these are, these are all benign, you know, these are things that you know, many
Muslims do and it doesn't, it doesn't mean anything necessarily.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We're just trying to get anything new about her, from a
good source which is the family.

CHESLEY: I think what, what we're seeing is like there's -- she was a very, very
private person. She was -- she kept herself pretty well isolated. She was pretty
conservative. And I think one of the dangers is that since everyone does know so
little is that she's easy to pin things to or stigmatize with. And she's been
the one that the media has done a lot of that to because there's no picture. And
so it's -- or there's not a lot of information about her, so I think we need to
card against that. But unfortunately, I wish I could answer the question better.
There's very, there is very little information we have about her, other than the
fact that she was a caring housewife and.

ABUERSHAID: And one of the things I can tell you guys, I have discussed with the
family about the housewife, is that they're very traditional. In a sense the
family would go over to the house, they wouldn't all be together in the room.
The women would sit with the women and the men would sit with the men. But that
is a very traditional way of acting. It wasn't anything that was different. So
the men did not interact with her. And the brothers did not actually ever see
her face. They've never seen her face because she did wear a burqa. So they just
knew her.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Totally covered.

ABUERSHAID: Yes, she was totally covered. So they just knew her as Syed's wife.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: But did she speak English?

ABUERSHAID: She did speak broken English. But her main language was Urdu.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Looking back at all these obviously, would (inaudible)
planning to get whatever they were wearing, that sort of thing. Was there any
picture -- the family, are they looking back now, you know, she remain hidden,
you know (inaudible) that sort of now that they sent, now we realize there was
something wrong.

ABUERSHAID: No, the family was (inaudible) they thought Syed's hobbies and which
they still love -- they still where was building cars. You know this was his
thing. He likes to go in his garage. He likes to work on things. They never used
to invade his personal space. That was his man cave of sorts. He used to go into
the garage and work on things. He used to build shoe racks for his sister,
(inaudible). So the family was taken by shocked. You know, they're very
emotional. And this is something that took them and just hit them as hard as
anybody else.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Did the family ever go in the garage?

ABUERSHAID: The family would just go in there just to see some of the things
that he might be working on like his car. One of the brothers even explained
that he would not go in there, because when he was just going in there just be
for play dates. His daughter.

(CROSSTALK)

ABUERSHAID: His daughter will be playing together, but that will be it.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They never noticed there are plenty of guns?

ABUERSHAID: Well, they were aware of the guns that were at the house, but they
were also aware that the guns were locked up in a case.

CHESLEY: I mean, when we talk about guns, we're talking about like, from what I
understand, there was two .9 millimeters and then there was two rifles. But that
was what we know, that was for target shooting before then. But there was
definitely never evidence of any of the other things.

(CROSSTALK)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But you characterize the level of Syed's mechanical
ability. He had this hobby. But I'm sort of.

ABUERSHAID: It wasn't something that he had gone and got in a formal education,
but it was something that he had picked up by watching his father, reading
books. He read books about, you know cars, mechanics, it was mostly car books
that he was reading and he was learning as he went along.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You said that he had been made fun of.

ABUERSHAID: Teased.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Teased by, about on his beard. Is that something that was
talked about a lot? In other words, the (inaudible) quite he talks about that.
Did he say, you know, there was a guy at work, he was harassing me or...

ABUERSHAID: I think it was just a general conversation that he had with the
family when he explained that, "Oh, somebody just made fun of my beard."

CHESLEY: But that's part of the concern, I think, is that we can't lead some
intolerance to lead to further intolerance or in addition, there's times when
these things happen in all sects of American culture where someone is
disgruntled or gets made fun of or is uncomfortable or is an anti-social person.
And they lash out, and they do bizarre things like in Columbine or wherever, you
know, in Colorado recently. It's -- it's hard to attribute just to -- just to
the religion of Islam or Muslim people.

And all Muslims, like I said, are condemning this act. And -- and we're all
praying on behalf of the victims, and we all feel terrible about what happened.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: First of all, I'll just say, if this was a workplace type of
shooting. There's always some sort of sign leading up to it. You're saying the
family did not see any sign whatsoever. Aside (ph) from his beard.

ABUERSHAID: The family just knew that he was made fun of the beard. There wasn't
anything else. He had just told the family, "Someone made fun of my beard."

You know, and his job, he had to keep his facial hair kind of trimmed up a
little more because of the type of job that he had and -- in the county. So
that's why he had told the family about this situation.

And mind you, he was a pretty private person. So for him to share some
information, you know, that's why the family had conveyed that to us, what
actually happened.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There's some conflicting information out there about how the
couple met. Do you have any idea about their personal history?

ABUERSHAID: Yes. The couple met through an online dating website. It was
actually a marriage website. They had met. They had interests that, you know,
they matched up.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Was it a Muslim website? Or...

ABUERSHAID: We don't actually know what kind of website. We were actually trying
to find out more information about the website with the FBI, as well.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you know what year it was?

ABUERSHAID: It was about 2013.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So then how do you know about it?

ABUERSHAID: The family talked about this. As well as the FBI.

CHESLEY: It's in the investigation.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (UNINTELLIGIBLE) Do you know when they met in person? The met
online sometime in 2013.

ABUERSHAID: They probably met in about 2013, and they ended up getting married
closer to the 2014 time period.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Did they meet in person at any time before that? Or would
that have been the first time they -- they met?

ABUERSHAID: He had went out there for a Hajj. And then they went ahead and they
met, and they got married a short time after that.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So he went there for the Hajj and came back the second time
and...

ABUERSHAID: That is our understanding.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Did he meet with her personally when he went for the Hajj?

ABUERSHAID: At that time I think he might have met with the family. That's what
we understand from the family members.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There have been unsubstantiated reports that the wife could
have been radicalized and somehow involved in (UNINTELLIGIBLE) unsubstantiated,
I know. But I'm wondering if any of the family members saw anything to suggest
that she perhaps was more dominant than a submissive Muslim woman might be.

ABUERSHAID: She was very soft-spoken. From the conversations that we've had with
the family members, they conveyed she was a very soft-spoken individual. The
women were the ones who were able to communicate with her. Syed did not want
anybody else to talk to her because of the tradition that he was focusing on. So
they said she was very soft-spoken; she was nice. And mind you, they only knew
her about a year and a half or so.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What do you know about her family?

ABUERSHAID: Nothing.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Absolutely nothing at all?

ABUERSHAID: Nothing. They live in Saudi Arabia. That's all we know.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Are they concerned for their safety, the family? Have they
had any threats?

ABUERSHAID: Her family members in Saudi?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No, no. I mean the family here.

ABUERSHAID: Oh, yes. They've gotten threats. It's been a consistent kind of
thing. They've gotten phone calls. They've gotten people threatening them
through Facebook. They've deactivated everything.

The brother was misidentified. Rahil was misidentified as Syed. And that's a --
that's a really bad situation to be misidentified as an active shooter while he
was at work in L.A. County.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Is her family Pakistani or Saudi?

ABUERSHAID: Whose family?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Her family.

ABUERSHAID: Pakistani. They're Pakistani.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And they moved to Saudi Arabia?

CHESLEY: Yes. When she was 18 or 20, she -- she went to Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, to
get married with Syed.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (UNINTELLIGIBLE) when they dropped off the grandchild?

ABUERSHAID: I think there's been some confusion about what they do with the
grandchild. The mother lived with Syed and his wife. So they were going off to a
doctor's appointment, and they left the child with her. They didn't actually
drop off the child. Since the mother lived there, she was taking care of her
grandchild at that time.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Did they try to change the date (ph) of (UNINTELLIGIBLE)?

ABUERSHAID: No. They -- they actually had the stomach flu earlier. So he had
told the mother they were going to go to a doctor's appointment. And he was
going to take his wife to the doctor's appointment.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If the mother lived with them, she never noticed anything
going on in the garage or anything at all?

CHESLEY: I guess what I would say is that this is just so -- this is just the
stereotypical situation of what takes place every time there is an event like
this. Most of the time no one knows that much about the shooter, and the same
thing was here -- was the case here.

The mother stayed to herself. I think she stayed upstairs. And so she would have
been separate and not really known much about what was taking place in the rest
of the house.

And everyone is always surprised by these incidents. And the same thing is true
here. Everyone was in shock.

There was a tendency to look for a network, a religious affiliation, an imam, an
extremist group, friends. Lists of -- lists of, you know, people that went to
the wedding. Anything that could be there to find some type of a terrorist
network. And the FBI was doing their job. We're all angry; we all want answers;
we all want security; we all want to be protected.

But nothing came up, and that is what is so shocking about all this. And I guess
I just feel the need to emphasize that so much. Because we just have a tendency
to characterize it in that way. And unfortunately it was just - - it was really
bizarre to sit through the interviews for four hours and not -- and not find or
see anything. But that's exactly what happened. There was nothing linking this
to religion or terrorist-related activities.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: ... investigation, not necessarily security agents.

CHESLEY: But they're the FBI, and they're damn good at getting this information.
They asked everything they could. They had the mother under pressure for -- with
seven hours or so. They -- they basically took her into custody. And at one
point they had the mother in custody. And they said, "We're not letting your
mother go." They said this to Saira, the sister of Syed. "We're not going to let
your mother go until you and your brother and your sister Eba (ph) come in for
questioning."

And I get the feeling that that was a really traumatic experience, because her
son had just died. And not to mention she was totally distraught over how that
happened and the victims. She's been crying all of these past couple days. She
hates what happened. She -- she's very mournful about -- over the victims.

But I guess what I'm saying is, they're not new to this game. I mean, one of the
FBI investigators we sat down with clearly looked like he would be a plant in a
mosque. He had a beard. He looked like he just walked right out of Pakistan or
Saudi Arabia. And these are very that shrewd, you know, smart individuals. And
if there was any information there, they would have gotten it or found it. I
mean, the entire world is digging for information. And the most we've gotten so
far is somebody looked at something on Facebook.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, that's all they're telling you.

CHESLEY: That's all we got so far. So far.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What about the information that there was media (ph) that
they destroyed?

CHESLEY: Yes, well, all we know -- what we know is that the sister, Eba (ph),
went back to pick up the mother. And she -- when she went back, the computers in
the house were unplugged, she had said. But I haven't -- I haven't read all
about this digital information. Yes. I mean, there's a lot of -- I don't go...

ABUERSHAID: There's more information that we're going to be getting once we go
back on Monday, to discuss the different media that they claim was destroyed, as
well. The family has been more than cooperative with giving up any of their
sources and multimedia that they might have to assist the FBI in the
investigation.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What does the family think happened? Do they have any
theories?

ABUERSHAID: The family is in complete shock. They have no idea whatsoever. This
was their brother by blood, but they weren't too close to him. Everybody had
their families. Everybody had their own children. They had their own life. They
weren't as close as they were when they were 15, 16 years of age.

The family is in complete shock. They're very sad for all the victims. They have
two losses of their own, as well.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (UNINTELLIGIBLE) Do you know anything about that?

ABUERSHAID: That's an ongoing part of this investigation that we're finishing up
with the FBI. So once we finish that, we'll give you guys more details about
that.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE:

ABUERSHAID: We're not going to be able to discuss that either right now.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Can you tell us where the baby is now, the child?

CHESLEY: The child is in Child Protective Services from what we understand. And
I guess they're -- we're not -- we've been trying to get the baby back. But we
-- it looks like we're probably not going to be able to get the baby out until
at least Monday.

ABUERSHAID: There is a hearing set for the child. We've been in open
communication with Child Protective Services to get this child released to one
of the family members. And the FBI has been willing to release it to one of the
family members.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Do you know which family member it's going to be, to raise
this child?

ABUERSHAID: It's most likely going to be, like, his older sister.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Which one?

ABUERSHAID: His oldest sister.

ABUERSHAID: Saira.

CHESLEY: Saira.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So basically what you're saying today is, whatever motive
there was for this is very, very hidden, even though there was a motive.
(UNINTELLIGIBLE)

CHESLEY: It's been -- it's been very hidden. As you can see from the statement
of the FBI chief, you know, that there isn't any connection, and -- and I guess
we're all wanting justice. And we're all wanting to make sure we find out
anybody who may be affiliated with it so we'll be protected in the future.

But at the same time, I guess we've just been saying that we all need to be
protective and respectful of one another's religious freedoms and -- and due
process, freedom to due process and -- and so that's what I would say about
that.

The motive is -- there's -- the motive is very unclear. It could be -- it could
be a disgruntled worker.

ABUERSHAID: At this point, the investigation is ongoing. It could be disgruntled
employee. It could be information that's coming out about their connections to
different types of groups. We're still waiting. And until we make a
determination, until we finish up with the FBI on Monday and Tuesday, that's
when we're going to be able to really see what this is kind of hanging on.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So they (UNINTELLIGIBLE).

ABUERSHAID: We will be doing interviews with -- on Monday and Tuesday with the
FBI.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you know more about -- you said (UNINTELLIGIBLE) about
this pharmacist...

ABUERSHAID: No, we didn't say that she was out of practice. We said that she was
not a pharmacist.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Did she have -- did she get a degree while in Saudi Arabia?

ABUERSHAID: No. There is no type of degree in Saudi Arabia that she had
received.

OK. So we will be -- we'll be finishing this up. If you guys have any more
questions on Monday, we'll finish up with -- on Monday, Tuesday with the FBI.

CHESLEY: Thank you very much, guys.

GUILFOYLE: OK. And that just concluded -- well, let's say this, a most
interesting press conference. I hope those attorneys weren't being paid. Because
that was the family attorneys for the Farook family.

And what you saw there was really a big focus on perhaps this could have been
domestic or workplace violence. A lot of focus on the two terrorists. And it is,
in fact, a terror investigation. And the reports came out by the FBI that they
are calling this an act of terror against those individuals. And this is, in
fact, the single largest, greatest terror attack on U.S. soil since 9/11.

We heard a lot of different things during that conference. Perhaps also
suggesting that the FBI was confused, that they didn't really understand exactly
what was going on here; that they had the grandmother, essentially, in custody
for seven hours, asking her questions. We learned that the grandmother was, in
fact, in the home, was watching the daughter and living in that home, they said
primarily upstairs. And we also know from the report that this was essentially
an IED factory, that you had a large number of pipe bombs, bomb-making materials
in that residence.

As a former prosecutor, I'll tell you, you certainly want to ask someone who was
an eyewitness, potentially percipient to those acts going on in the home, a lot
of questions about what she knew, what she observed and who was coming in and
out of the home.

We're going to take it around the table. We've got some thoughts and reflections
on this -- Greg.

GUTFELD: I was absolutely amazed. They could go on tour as a comedy troupe. One
thing, when they said, like, nobody noticed the pipe bombs. You mean to tell me
people who make pipe bombs, they don't leave them out in the open? You know, you
just walk in and there's a pipe bomb, and they go, "Oh, I'm sorry. That's just a
clock for school." That is just amazing to me.

They also kept stressing that there may not be ties to a greater terrorist
organization. That almost argues against their clients, because they are
conflating terrorism with the Muslim community. Whenever they kept talking about
these people, these terrorists, they kept saying, "Oh, you don't want to -- you
know, you don't want to attack the Islamic community." Nobody is. But by them --
by them constantly bringing that up, they are conflating the terrorists with the
Islamic community.

And that is the ultimate crime of Islamophobia. They were walking cartoons. They
could work at the Department Justice.

GUILFOYLE: OK. Well, some of the rhetoric coming out of there was mirroring what
we've been hearing from the White House and the DOJ. But this is an ongoing
investigation, and they're going to try to establish and see if there's any
links, Dana, to other terror groups, other cells; if there's other individuals.
We've heard already that the FBI feels that there was people that were perhaps
working with them or closely associated.

We do know that the husband, Mr. Farook, had had ties with people who were on
investigation lists, that they were following that, and at one point, those
investigations were closed. All of that is very relevant.

But you heard a lot of language about blaming, almost, the victims here, talking
about the beard, talking about workplace violence. We're not sure if that's what
it is. Well, it's already been designated that it wasn't that.

And by the way, these are the same co-workers, that they murdered in cold blood,
that they accepted a baby shower from months earlier.

PERINO: Well, from a P.R. standpoint, I think that -- I can understand when a
family has an attorney, and that they want to try to, at least, be in the news
story and to provide some sort of information. So typically, what you would do
is you would have a written statement that you go out and you read on camera.
You maybe take one or two questions and get off the stage. Because as I said,
they're going to have additional follow-up questions from the FBI, as they
should.

They almost seemed surprised and offended that they were even being subjected to
any sort of questioning. When you -- and they gave -- every once in a while, he
would sort of remember to say, "Oh right and we're -- we feel mournful for the
victims." But to me I think that that was a pretty sad showing.

But it was actually very interesting in another way, which is to look into the
mindset of the community and how they are approaching this. And this is one of
the problems, that if you don't define radical Islam for what it is, then you
get this kind of mush.

GUILFOYLE: Yes. And there's no -- there's no act or incident -- they tried to
talk about this beard over and over again.

GUTFELD: Who pushed the beard?

GUILFOYLE: Who pushed the beard? Who pushed the video? It was more like, just,
the total distracting.

GUTFELD: Like the -- blaming...

GUILFOYLE: Like Benghazi, yes.

GUTFELD: Like blaming Benghazi on a video now allows you to blame a massacre on
making fun of a beard.

GUILFOYLE: Yes. And Eric, you know...

PERINO: Which hasn't even been proven.

GUILFOYLE: Right. With this whole narrative really seeming to just say -- and
then there was another report that they did earlier, where they talked about
that the female, Eric, weighed 90 pounds and wouldn't be able to actually hold
up a gun to shoot anybody. So complete dissociation with the facts.

BOLLING: OK. So we're feverishly taking notes here. My head is exploding.
There's so many things from that press conference that we could talk about. Let
me just try and nail a few of the ones that really stood out.

By the way, two despicable lawyers; pure propaganda. No information, just all
propaganda. They weren't defending anybody. All they were doing was trying to
push a narrative. Blame the beard, blame Islamophobia.

They blame law enforcement and the FBI for Islamophobia and racism. And when the
FBI went out of their way to make sure that they didn't call it terror in
advance until they were sure that they had that loophole closed. And then they
did.

Basically blaming the victims, as Kimberly pointed out. Blaming the beard.

The home had pipe bombs. The home was booby-trapped.

PERINO: Right.

BOLLING: They can't say that these people -- this is just a spontaneous
reaction? There's nothing -- there's no evidence. The evidence proves everything
contrary to what they were saying.

But this is the most important thing in my mind, and I'll stop. Was that this is
not good for the moderate Muslim community.

GUTFELD: Exactly.

BOLLING: For the moderate Muslim community, to come out and hear these two
lawyers blame everything but the two people who perpetrated the crime...

GUTFELD: Exactly.

BOLLING: ... that killed 14 people and who killed or hurt how many countless
others, it's terrible. We've been asking the moderate Muslim community to step
up...

PERINO: Right.

BOLLING: ... and call that B.S. out for what it is. Murder and terror and things
like this puts a bad, bad feeling and a bad taste in everyone's mouth...

GUILFOYLE: Right.

BOLLING: ... about whether or not the moderate Muslim community is willing to
step up and talk.

WILLIAMS: Let me get this straight. You want the lawyers -- and we don't -- are
they lawyers for the family? That's my impression.

PERINO: Yes.

GUILFOYLE: Well, spoken (ph)...

WILLIAMS: You want the lawyers for the family now to blame the family for what
took place? I think their job, as they come out there, is to say, "Slow down,
everybody. Stop leaping to assumptions."

If you're their lawyer, Eric, you want somebody who will come out and say...

BOLLING: They didn't do it?

WILLIAMS: ... "Here is what is isolated"...

GUTFELD: Juan, nobody jumped to conclusions. When it happened, everybody was
blaming it on guns. They weren't blaming it on radical Muslims.

WILLIAMS: Now -- now...

GUTFELD: When the facts are out. The facts are out, we can blame radical
Muslims.

WILLIAMS: In fact, we're still searching for facts. I think that's their point.
We're still searching to see exactly was there a cell? We don't know. Was there
some training? We don't know.

Eric has asked a very important question: where's the money come from to fund
this kind of activity? We don't know. But I think a lot of...

GUILFOYLE: We know that they didn't have funds sufficient to buy all of this.
That's a fact.

WILLIAMS: Right. That's what I'm saying. That's why we're asking the question
about the money.

But you don't want to get yourself into a conundrum of sorts where you're
saying, "Oh, yes, you know what? They're Muslim and there was this woman, who
just came from Pakistan and Saudi Arabia." And everybody is leaping to make
conclusions. So the lawyer's job...

GUTFELD: That's not leaping.

WILLIAMS: It was leaping.

GUTFELD: That's a methodical look at research.

WILLIAMS: Here's the thing that strikes me. I think the real danger here is what
they're calling self-radicalization, that, oh, yes, I'm told that she somehow
pledges...

GUILFOYLE: She pledge allegiance to ISIS and to al-Baghdadi.

WILLIAMS: ... allegiance to al-Baghdadi. That's the last -- at the last moment.

GUILFOYLE: That sounds ambiguous.

WILLIAMS: Now, this is during the commission of the act.

BOLLING: What are you suggesting, that they -- they weren't involved, also?

WILLIAMS: No, no. I'm jumping into...

BOLLING: An obvious hotbed of lies and despicable propaganda.

WILLIAMS: No, no. I'm concerned.

BOLLING: That's all this is. This is all propaganda. And why are you
perpetrating this B.S.?

WILLIAMS: This is what I'm concerned about -- you are wrong. You know, because
you don't understand the job of a lawyer. This is America -- in America...

BOLLING: Blame the victim...

GUILFOYLE: They're terrorists.

BOLLING: ... blame America? Blame America for 14 people dead?

WILLIAMS: Let me tell you something, if I was representing you, I would
introduce some element of doubt. But let me just say this...

BOLLING: I didn't think they were doing that. But hold on.

GUILFOYLE: Juan, do you understand the terrorists are dead, so these criminal
defense attorneys aren't going to defend them in court. They were caught with
all the evidence.

BOLLING: Did you hear them say -- did you hear them say that they would shoot --
or did you hear them say the reason why -- there may have been a reason why this
happened?

GUTFELD: What did they do after Britney Spears? Where did that come from?

PERINO: Right.

GUTFELD: That's -- that's, like, they were talking about bullying, about beards,
making fun of beards. And then the guy says, "I hate Britney Spears' music."
You, sir, are -- he's actually advocating terror against Britney Spears.

WILLIAMS: OK. Here's my -- here's my big concern, on a serious note, because I'm
a Britney Spears fan.

GUTFELD: Yes.

WILLIAMS: We have 71 people charged in the United States with ISIS activity
since March of '14. We have -- they say there are 300 Americans in the U.S. who
are ISIS sympathizers and have been active online recruiters. OK. So if this is
the leading edge of something where you have self-radicalization, buddy, we're
in trouble. That's what I'm worried about. And that's what I think the lawyers
are talking about.

GUILFOYLE: Oh, wow. OK, so Juan watched a different press conference. It's no
problem. Things get confusing like that.

But Juan, you do understand this has been designated an act of terror.

WILLIAMS: Yes.

GUILFOYLE: You do understand that she pledged allegiance to ISIS and al-
Baghdadi.

WILLIAMS: Yes.

GUILFOYLE: You're not confused about that. So now the only thing that remains is
to determine the nexus and to see what the tentacles of the terror network, to
see if there was other people that were aiding and abetting, acting in concert
to help them facilitate this crime or, God forbid, to help plan another one.

WILLIAMS: Right.

GUILFOYLE: There's also sufficient evidence that they're working on developing
to see if there was a secondary target or another incident.

WILLIAMS: That's the big one. Right.

GUILFOYLE: So we get that, right? It has nothing to do with, like, the beard.

WILLIAMS: In fact, I'm very curious. I wanted to ask Adam Housley about this.
The idea that that there was a second plot, that they were going to do some
additional terrorist act. But I -- we didn't get a chance.

But your point is well taken, Kimberly.

GUILFOYLE: Right.

WILLIAMS: They -- they're looking for further evidence to see exactly what...

GUTFELD: They haven't found the smoking gun yet? There are smoking guns all over
the scene.

BOLLING: And pipe bombs and IEDs and...

GUILFOYLE: AR-15s and, yes.

BOLLING: ... booby-trapped apartments with babies and grandmothers in it.

GUILFOYLE: Unbelievable. And they said, well, she was just, you know...

GUTFELD: A quiet, conservative family.

GUILFOYLE: ... your average quiet conservative housewife, with pipe bombs and
jihad. And...

BOLLING: Don't be so skeptic -- your being skeptical is basically Islamophobia.

GUTFELD: We're being judgmental.

BOLLING: Yes.

GUILFOYLE: All right. Never a dull moment. More to come on "The Five," you know
it. Just a moment. We'll be right back.

GUILFOYLE: All right. Welcome back to "The Five." We're going to take it around
the table for some final thoughts, reflections, because we just witnessed the
press conference by the Farook family's attorney. Mr. Chesley and another
individual -- Dana.

PERINO: Well, I think there's two main things to look at this weekend. And as
first and foremost, I think that we all owe the victims some reflection, right?
And to look at their stories and to mark their lives and to really think about
them and pray for their families.

But the second thing I would watch is the developing possible tension in
Washington, and hopefully, this does not turn into a partisan issue. And we have
-- as a nation, we need to come together to deal with the realization that they
are here, and we have to give intel and our police everything they need to try
to prevent and disrupt these attacks before they happen.

GUILFOYLE: All right. Bolling.

BOLLING: So I hope in the next few days, the Department of Justice, the FBI, the
intel, everyone just ties up all these loose ends and just presents the
evidence. So that idiot lawyers like that can't waste any more of our time,
making conspiracy theories on why they possibly perpetrated this or it's our
fault or it's the infidels' fault. Get rid of that.

And secondly, again, I hope the moderate Muslim community, whoever represent
them. I don't think it's CAIR. I'm not sure if it is or not. But whoever it is,
comes forward and says, "We don't stand by what those two people just said right
there. That's not what we represent. What we represent is a peaceful Islam."

And certainly, blaming the victims and blaming America and blaming the infidels
and blaming everyone but themselves, except for the two that killed 14 people,
is not what they represent. Fix this. Fix this, moderate Muslims.

WILLIAMS: You know, what I felt this whole week is I don't want to feed the
fear. And I think there's a lot of fear right now, a lot of anxiety. And then
there's a lot of partisanship, as Dana was just talking about, where people say,
"So are we going to label this terrorism or do we label it workplace violence?
And if you label it that way, then you're really on the gun control argument,
and that's not what this is about. This is about the jihadist terrorist network
and fighting it."

And I'm thinking, you know what? We've got dead people. We've got dead
Americans, our brothers and sisters, and we're all in a moment where we have to
be clear in our thinking, rather than, I think, resort to finger- pointing,
blame-gaming and playing politics. Stop it.

GUILFOYLE: All right. This was an act of terror against the United States of
America, and the second largest act of terror against this country and innocent
Americans since September 11. Now is the time to do something.

Mr. President, where are you? We did not hear from you on this today. You should
be out front and center, talking about this and reassuring this country that we
are doing everything we can to combat radical Islamic terrorism in this country.
It's time to be courageous and show leadership -- Greg.

GUTFELD: I think we need to develop a terror A.A., where people can go and admit
that we have a terror problem without being called Islamophobic or intolerant.
They could be -- moderate Muslims could meet and go, "My name is whatever, and I
am -- I am scared to death of pointing out this evil."

And I think that would be one step.

The one thing, this has happened before. Remember liberals forfeited the fight
with communism, and that fight fell among the anti-communist right as the left
become anti-anti-communist. You're seeing this right now. Because of President
Obama and Hillary Clinton abdicating the right against the war on terror, that
is falling into the hands of conservatives. This is going to cost them an
election, because they are cowards. They have created a leadership gap, and the
only people that are going to fill it in are the people on the conservative
side, because they refuse to unify with the right when they should. They should
admit this is a big deal.

GUILFOYLE: You're absolutely right. Maybe now is the time to say yes, ask not
what your country can do for you, but what you can do for your country and for
your family. If you see something, say something, and arm yourselves in the
meantime.

That's it for us. "Special Report" is next. Have a great weekend, everyone.

BOLLING: Well done.

GUTFELD: Arm yourself.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120401cb.258

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               43 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            December 4, 2015 Friday

              SHOW: FOX SPECIAL REPORT WITH BRET BAIER 6:00 PM EST

Act of Terrorism; Another Bump for Trump; Clinton Roadblocks; Repealing
Obamacare

BYLINE: Bret Baier, Adam Housley, Howard Kurtz, James Rosen, Carl Cameron, Ed
Henry, Mike Emanuel

GUESTS: Charles Lane, Amy Walter, Charles Hurt, Mike Huckabee

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 7428  words


BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS CHIEF POLITICAL ANCHOR: San Bernardino, California is now
the site of the single deadliest terror attack on U.S. soil since 9/11/2001. We
have breaking details from the FBI's newly designated terrorism investigation.

This is SPECIAL REPORT.

Good evening. Welcome to Washington. I'm Bret Baier.

The FBI is admitting what President Obama has gone to considerable effort not to
that evidence in the killing of 14 people at a San Bernardino, California
Christmas lunch Wednesday points to terrorism.

We now know from authorities, that the woman involved in the shootings pledged
allegiance to ISIS and that she and her husband tried to destroy any evidence of
communications that could shed light on their communications with others or
motivation after abandoning their six-month- old child before taking part in the
attack together.

We have Fox Team coverage tonight: James Rosen at the White House with a look at
President Obama's reluctance to attribute this and other incidents to terrorism;
Howard Kurtz here in Washington with a media circus at the home of the shooters
today. But we begin again tonight with senior correspondent Adam Housley in San
Bernardino.

Hi -- Adam.

ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: Hi -- Bret.

As you mentioned, the big development out of here today was the FBI coming out
and officially announcing that they're investigating this as a possible act of
terrorism. As they continue to investigate this attack we're learning more about
the backgrounds of the suspects and the planning that went into Tuesday's
rampage.

We've also heard from the suspects' families through their attorneys just
moments ago. They insist they knew nothing about what was happening and
insinuating the FBI is calling this a possible act of terrorism due to religious
reasons.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

DAVID BOWDICH, FBI: As of today based on the information and the facts as we
know them, we are now investigating these horrific acts as an act of terrorism.

HOUSLEY: Two days after Wednesday's deadly shooting, the investigation now
officially in the hands of the FBI.

BOWDICH: We have uncovered evidence that has led us to learn of extensive
planning; obviously we've uncovered evidence of explosives, multiple armaments
--

HOUSLEY: Evidence that authorities tell us includes a Facebook post where
Tashfeen Malik pledged her allegiance to ISIS and its leader just moments before
the massacre. It was removed by Facebook and reported to law enforcement.

BOWDICH: I'm aware of the Facebook post you're mentioning. And I saw the same
thing you did. We don't know what's there yet. We're still continuing to look
into that.

HOUSLEY: Investigators say the couple also tried to erase their digital
footprint by damaging personal devices.

BOWDICH: The cell phones were -- were actually crushed. We have retained those
cell phones and we do continue to exploit the data from those cell phones. We do
hope that the digital fingerprints that were left by these two individuals will
take us towards their motivation.

HOUSLEY: FBI director James Comey also making a statement as there is apparently
friction between the FBI and the White House on how to characterize this attack.

JAMES COMEY, FBI DIRECTOR: The investigation so far has developed indications of
radicalization by the killers and of potential inspiration by foreign terrorist
organizations.

HOUSLEY: Lives that appeared normal as we get our first look inside the
apartment of Malik and her husband Syed Farook. The home already cleared as a
crime scene contained furniture, baby items, documents, family photos and
several copies of the Koran. The owner says Farook passed a background check and
paid the rent on time.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No problems whatsoever.

HOUSLEY: And the complete chaos of that day coming to light from those who
arrived first on the scene.

LT. MICHAEL MADDEN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE: It was unspeakable the carnage that
we were seeing, the number of people who were injured and unfortunately already
dead. And the pure panic on the face of those individuals that were still in
need and needing to be safe.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

HOUSLEY: Bret, the State Department said today they stand behind their screening
process that Tashfeen went through in Pakistan for visas and have no plans to
make any changes in light of this week's events -- Bret.

BAIER: You know, Adam, we heard FBI director James Comey say that they probably
are not part of a cell. At least there's no evidence of that yet. There are a
lot of questions, though, about how they got the money to get all of this stuff.

HOUSLEY: Right. Agents very early on have said they don't believe they had the
money themselves to do this. They believe there are outside influences. They
won't tell me if that's here domestically or internationally. I do have one
agent say they do believe the trail leads outside the country and wouldn't go
any further. So they are following that path -- Bret. Obviously if they can nail
that down, it will definitely give us an insight into how they were able to do
this but also who they were connected to -- Bret.

BAIER: Ok. We'll follow every step of the way. Adam -- thank you.

Let's talk more now about the media invasion of the shooters' home. Fox News
media analyst and host of Fox's "MEDIA BUZZ" Howie Kurtz is here tonight. Howie,
I mean this is 50 hours after the attack. Have you ever seen anything like this?

HOWARD KURTZ, FOX NEWS MEDIA ANALYST: I really haven't -- Bret. And former
homicide detective and Fox contributor Rod Wheeler tells me he hasn't either. I
know the FBI said today it was done with the apartment and didn't object. But
this is extremely unusual to let a gang of reporters just rummage through the
place, especially in such a high-profile case of mass murder.

Meanwhile the tabloid show "Inside Edition" declined to comment today when we
asked about a report that it had paid $1,000 to the landlord for the earliest
access to that apartment.

BAIER: So how did the networks handle.

KURTZ: Well, CNN delayed its live coverage of it. It was careful in what it
showed. Fox News initially had trouble with its live feed and also took a
cautious approach.

But MSNBC plunged right in. Its reporter showing the teddy bear of the couple's
baby, family photos with other children in them. And even one relative's
driver's license with all the identifying information right there. This, while
anchor Andrea Mitchell kept urging the reporter to be more cautious.

BAIER: Yes. What was driving all this, do you think?

KURTZ: Obviously in television, nobody wants to be ten seconds behind the other
guy but there's intense public interest in this case as you know and all the
unanswered questions about the killer's motivation and possible ties to ISIS.
But for a journalist to just be holding up personal items and baby toys without
checking them out first seemed rather ghoulish and Bret, late this afternoon
MSNBC issuing a statement, "We regret that we briefly showed images of
photographs and identification cards that should not have been aired without
review".

BAIER: And the family's lawyers mentioned this event late this afternoon as
well.

KURTZ: Indeed.

BAIER: Howie -- thank you.

KURTZ: Thanks.

BAIER: President Obama's press secretary took pains today to avoid attributing
the shootings to terrorism. Tonight chief Washington correspondent, James Rosen
looks at why the President has been so reluctant to acknowledge what the FBI
made plain.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

JAMES ROSEN, FOX NEWS CHIEF WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT: Right up until the FBI
announced that it is processing the San Bernardino case as an act of terrorism,
the White House declined to call it that, citing in part the need for more
information.

JOSH EARNEST, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: What it looks like is people who were
obviously intent on carrying out a terrible act of violence. I think it will
require a careful examination of the facts that are collected and better insight
into what their intent may have been.

ROSEN: The White House hedged its bets however by disclosing that President
Obama's top counterterrorism adviser, Lisa Monaco, had participated in his
morning briefing on the shootings. Critics see a pattern, where the Obama
administration has been slow to recognize terrorism or call it that.

In 2009, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano famously labeled terrorist
acts "man-caused disasters". The Pentagon termed the Fort Hood massacre an
instance of workplace violence.

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: And as we have more information,
we'll let the public know.

ROSEN: And in July the President declined to categorize mass casualty attacks at
two military installations in Chattanooga again leaving it to the FBI to call it
terrorism.

More broadly the President has refused to use the words "radical Islam",
"Islamist" or "jihad" in describing the greater challenge from terrorism,
preferring instead the term "violent extremism".

REP. PETER KING (R), NEW YORK: Well first when the President of the United
States (inaudible) he knows is an enemy and the enemy is Islamic jihad --

EARNEST: The fact that our harshest critics that best criticism that they can
come up with is to criticize what the President says I think is a pretty strong
endorsement of all the actions that the President has take to keep the country
safe.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

ROSEN: Up to now the White House had wanted the attorney general and the
director of the FBI to take the lead role in making public pronouncements on the
San Bernardino case. However, officials here tell me tonight that President
Obama will speak out again and soon on these attacks and will address them
squarely as acts of terrorism -- Bret.

BAIER: James Rosen, live on the north lawn. James -- thank you.

The Los Angeles head of a major Muslim advocacy group is blaming the U.S. for
Islamic terror. This is the director of the Los Angeles Chapter of the Council
on American-Islamic Relations this morning.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HUSSAM AYLOUSH, CAIR LOS ANGELES: We support coup (ph) leaders in Egypt or other
places, we support dictatorships, repressive regimes around the world that push
people over to the edge then they become extremists, then they become terrorists
-- we are partly responsible.

So terrorism is a global problem, not a Muslim problem. And the solution has to
be global. Everybody has a role in it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BAIER: Hussam Ayloush says 95 percent of the victims of ISIS are Muslims.

Up next a new breakdown: the 2016 Republican race takes an interesting turn --
we'll have that.

First here's what some of our Fox affiliates around the country are covering
tonight. Fox 21 in Colorado Springs with the funeral of the campus police
officer killed a week ago during the Planned Parenthood shootings. Garrett
Swasey rushed to the clinic from his duty post at the University of Colorado at
Colorado Springs, two civilians were also killed. The suspected gunman is in
custody.

Fox 5 in New York where Amazon plans to schedule workers on staggered shifts
after the Mayor of Robbinsville, New Jersey threatened to shut down the busiest
warehouse on the planet. That's what Amazon calls its fulfillment center there.
One resident previously said it could take up to 40 minutes to drive less than a
mile.

And this is a live look at Orlando, Florida from Fox 35. The big story there
tonight, another scrub in launch plans for unmanned supply mission to the
International Space Station. Weather forced the postponement for a second day in
a row.

That's tonight's live look outside the Beltway from SPECIAL REPORT. We'll be
right back.

BAIER: Donald Trump and Ted Cruz are up; Ben Carson and Jeb Bush are down in the
latest major poll in the Republican presidential race. Chief political
correspondent Carl Cameron tells us tonight how just about everything appears to
be going right for the billionaire candidate.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

CARL CAMERON, FOX NEWS CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: With eight weeks to the
first votes, Donald Trump's conventional wisdom-defying lead in the polls is
growing. Trump has hit a new high -- 36 percent in the latest CNN poll. Doubling
Ted Cruz, who surged to 16 and holds a slight lead within the poll's 4.5 percent
margin of error and is in a virtual three-way tie with Ben Carson, who slid to
14 percent and Marco Rubio at 12 percent. The rest of the field is under 5
percent.

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I know. I know what you're saying.

CAMERON: Trump got a smattering of boos at the Republican Jewish Coalition
presidential forum for questioning Israel's commitment to peace and refusing to
embrace Jerusalem as its rightful capital. Yet when more than once he seemed to
stereotype the financial acumen of powerful Jewish donors and activists, he got
chuckles and applause.

TRUMP: Look, I'm a negotiator like you folks. We're negotiators. Is there
anybody that doesn't renegotiate deals in this room? This room negotiates. I
want to -- perhaps more than any room I've ever spoken to, maybe more.

CAMERON: Cruz has moved into second place in national polls and at a gun range
in Iowa promised to defend the Second Amendment against arguments by the
President and others that mass shootings warrant more gun regulations.

SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: That is not a solution to this
terror attack. Indeed the fact that we are a free citizenry and a citizenry who
exercises our constitutional rights helps keep us safe.

SEN. MARCO RUBIO (R-FL), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I don't want to hear any more
-- the President talking about gun control. We need bomb control.

CAMERON: Rubio and Cruz have been lobbying rhetorical grenades at one another
over security policy for weeks. Rubio today suggested the President put privacy
ahead of security when the NSA's bulk collection of phone data was curtailed
this week. Rubio opposed the move which Cruz and Rand Paul supported.

RUBIO: This president has weakened our intelligence programs and you even had
some Republicans support him in that effort.

Several Republican candidates are in Iowa tomorrow for a big cattle call
sponsored by the conservative Koch Brothers Group known as the Freedom Partners.
Trump is in Iowa, but he's holding big rallies of his own where he will not have
to share the stage with anybody else -- Bret.

BAIER: All right. Carl -- thank you.

Former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee is our guest in the "Center Seat" at the
bottom of the hour this will be our 14th "Center Seat" with presidential
candidates this year. You can watch them all through the Fox News Web site right
there.

Hillary Clinton is preparing for a major shopping spree. It has nothing to do
with the coming holidays. But has everything to do with your tax dollars.

Chief White House correspondent Ed Henry goes down the wish list.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

ED HENRY, FOX NEWS CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: As President Obama signed
the long-stalled highway bill today, Hillary Clinton declared in Iowa the
massive $305 billion price tag is just a starting point for her.

HILLARY CLINTON (D), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: It's a lot of money, but nowhere
near what we need to spend.

HENRY: In fact, Clinton is proposing a spending spree. Today she was laying out
a $275 billion infrastructure plan, part of a broader $350 billion jobs plan
that's still growing as she unveils pieces of it, plus another $350 billion to
reduce college tuition, a $200 billion child care plan on top of $75 billion to
promote clean energy and $10 billion each for paid family leave, home care for
the elderly, and drug treatment.

DOUGLAS HOLTZ-EAKIN, AMERICAN ACTION FORUM: Roughly $1.2 trillion in additional
new spending which is a frighteningly large number except when compared to
Bernie Sanders, who is somewhere north of $17 trillion.

HENRY: Tacking to the left has helped Clinton expand her national lead over the
socialist Democratic senator. And a new Gallup poll shows Clinton's net
favorable rating among Democrats and Democratic leaning Independents averaged 21
points higher than Sanders in November up from a 13 point advantage in September
and early October.

Yet Clinton still has vulnerabilities in a general election. She has said
nothing about how she'll pay for all of the new spending.

CLINTON: I will not raise taxes on the middle class of America.

HENRY: And her e-mail situation has been cited as a problem even by aides to
Labor Secretary Thomas Perez who today endorsed Clinton.

THOMAS PEREZ, U.S. LABOR SECRETARY: She is a fighter.

HENRY: Labor department e-mails obtained by the conservative super PAC America
Rising through the Freedom of Information Act show that in March after the story
broke about Clinton's personal server while she was secretary of state, records
officials at the Labor Department sent each other e-mails declaring "What in the
heck was State thinking?" And "You may want to share with the group as to how
not to handle things and how you can end up in nationwide news."

(END VIDEOTAPE)

HENRY: And in another e-mail between Labor Department officials, one of them was
said to be so glad they're not working at the State Department, adding LOL --
Bret.

BAIER: We talk about this now, the biggest single deadliest terrorist attack on
U.S. soil since 9/11. How does this affect Hillary Clinton as this
administration deals with the naming of it, the talking about it?

HENRY: This is the Clinton conundrum -- right. Her resume was supposed to be the
best secretary of state but now she also has the baggage of the Clinton foreign
policy -- calling ISIS the JV squad, al Qaeda is on the run. It certainly
doesn't look like that on American soil. She's trying to turn it around in part
by focusing on gun control and saying Republicans look extreme there.

But on one of the issues she's pushing, don't let people who are on the no-fly
list buy guns the fact of the matter is there's no evidence here that Farook was
on a no-fly list. Neither he nor his wife or they had any criminal record that
would have prevented him from buying these guns.

BAIER: She just called it terrorism in the past few minutes.

HENRY: Just in the last few minutes.

BAIER: Right. Ed -- thanks.

HENRY: Good to see you.

BAIER: The attorney general in Texas is withdrawing his attempt to block the
resettlement of Syrian refugees in his state next week. The AG says the feds
have provided the additional information about the migrants that they had
initially withheld. Earlier today, the Obama administration tried to get a court
to block the Texas move. It contends states do not have the authority to prevent
refugee placement.

Still ahead, Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee takes questions in
our "Center Seat".

First, congressional Republicans make good on their promise to pass a bill to
repeal Obamacare. We'll tell you what comes next.

BAIER: The U.S. Supreme Court will hear an appeal from Puerto Rican officials
seeking to restructure some of the Commonwealth's $72 billion debt. Puerto Rico
wants justices to review a lower court ruling keeping local municipalities from
declaring bankruptcy.

Stocks surged today, fueled by a November jobs report that showed a gain of
211,000 positions. The unemployment rate remains at 5 percent, but it beat
expectations. It's important to note the number of people without a job, not
participating in the workforce is still over the 94 million mark for the fourth
month in a row.

The Dow got back into positive territory for the year, gaining a huge 370 points
today, the S&P 500 was up 42, the Nasdaq finished ahead 105.

For the week the Dow was up a quarter of a percentage point, the S&P 500 gained
five-hundredths, Nasdaq was also up a quarter.

President Obama will finally get his chance to veto a Republican-led effort to
scrap President Obama's own health care law.

Chief congressional correspondent Mike Emanuel on how the GOP-led Congress
finally delivered on a promise.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

MIKE EMANUEL, FOX NEWS CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: After the House has
voted 61 times to repeal or scale back at least parts of Obamacare, last night
the Senate passed a measure gutting the President's health care law. Through a
process known as budget reconciliation the senate only needed 51 to pass it and
did so with a 52-47 vote. Republicans called Obamacare a failure full of higher
costs and broken promises.

SEN. MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY), MINORITY LEADER: It will be a victory for the
middle class families who have endured this law's pain far too long -- on their
medical choices, on the affordability of their care, on the availability of
their doctors.

EMANUEL: White House aides say President Obama is willing to work with people on
either side who have a genuine desire to improve the law.

EARNEST: The frustration that the administration has felt is that time and time
again the goal of Republicans has been not to strengthen the law, but rather to
undermine it.

EMANUEL: Republican moderates Mark Kirk of Illinois and Susan Collins of Maine
voted against because of the language defunding Planned Parenthood. A leading
Senate Democrat tried to strip out that part of the bill but was unsuccessful.

SEN. PATTY MURRAY (D), WASHINGTON: Unfortunately with this latest tired
political effort to dismantle critical health care reforms, my Republican
colleagues are once again making clear they want to take our health care system
back to the bad old days.

EMANUEL: However the law remains unpopular with much of the country. The Real
Clear Politics Average of recent polls reveals 49.8 percent against Obamacare,
with 43 percent in favor. House Speaker Paul Ryan is already talking about an
alternative.

REP. PAUL RYAN (R-WI), HOUSE SPEAKER: We think prices are going up because
people have too few choices, not because they have too many. And we think this
problem is so urgent that next year we will unveil a plan to replace every
single word of Obamacare.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

EMANUEL: The President is expected to veto this legislation that would kill his
signature law. But what this shows is a blueprint of how Congress could unravel
Obamacare if there's a Republican president in 2017 -- Bret.

BAIER: Mike -- thanks.

Germany is getting involved militarily in the fight against is, lawmakers have
voted to send reconnaissance jets, a tanker plane and a frigate to provide broad
noncombat support.

Three weeks after the Paris terror attacks, the European Union ministers meeting
in Brussels have agreed on a system to share airline passenger information,
paving the way for closer scrutiny of extremists and terrorists. Also today a
Paris cafe where five people were killed reopened to the public.

Turkey's prime minister says his country will not be brought to its knees by
Russian sanctions in retaliation for downing a Russian war plane. The Prime
Minister also reiterates Turkey will not apologize.

Yesterday Russian President Vladimir Putin accused Turkey of a treacherous war
crime and vowed to make the country feel sorry for its actions.

When we come back, Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee is in our
"Center Seat".

BAIER: Tonight we welcome Republican presidential candidate, former Arkansas
governor Mike Huckabee to our Center Seat. Asking the questions tonight, Charles
Lane, opinion writer for the "Washington Post," Amy Walter, national for "The
Cook POLITICAL Report," and Charles Hurt, political columnist for the
"Washington Times." Governor, thanks for being here.

MIKE HUCKABEE, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: My pleasure. Thank you very much.

It's been an interesting couple of days as we are learning more about this
situation in San Bernardino. Even though we now know from officials in the U.S.
government that at least one of these shooters pledged allegiance to ISIS, and
there are many other connections that are being talked about, the White House
again today was reticent to call it terrorism as of yet. And in fact, Josh
Earnest went back to an argument he made yesterday. Just take a listen to today?

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JOSH EARNEST, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: Why on earth do we think it's a good
idea for somebody that the government thinks is too dangerous to board a plane
be allowed to buy a gun? It doesn't make any sense. But once again Republicans
blocked legislation that would make that illegal.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BAIER: Your reaction to that and the White House response?

HUCKABEE: Was there any indication that either one of these shooters were unable
to board a plane? No, there was not. In fact they were fully vetted. They were
able to come back into the country. She had a passport, she had a visa. This
nonsense, well, they wouldn't have been able to buy guns. This is the false
argument that this White House has made in an attempt to dodge the real issue.
There are people who are trying to kill us. They're Islamic jihadists. I don't
know why they can't just come up and say it. They wouldn't say it after Little
Rock, they wouldn't say it after Fort Hood, they wouldn't say it after Oklahoma
City. You have the Boston Marathon. How many times does this have to happen?

He keeps asking us, how many times do he we have to have mass shootings to get
gun control. I would like to ask him, how many times do we have Islamic jihadist
terrorist attacks and him not be able to acknowledge what we're fighting
against?

BAIER: On the specific issue since they keep coming back to it, what about
someone on the terrorist watch list, should they be allowed to buy a gun?

HUCKABEE: The problem is most of the time it is a name, not a background. It's
the full identity. So I've had friends, I'm sure all of us have, friends who
ended up on the list because their name was the name of somebody that might have
a suspicion, not necessarily even so much as a probable cause. But they were on
the no-fly list and it took them months if not a couple of years to get off of
it. In the meantime their lives were a living hell.

Why would you put people through that if you can't at that point really say that
this is a person you're suspecting of terrorist activity, even suspecting of
criminal activity?

BAIER: Charlie?

CHARLES HURT, "WASHINGTON TIMES": Governor, you know, we've seen this in Paris
and in San Bernardino, this concept of the more home-grown jihadists, it's kind
of you know, more alarming I think than when they're foreign. How do you get at
that as the government?

HUCKABEE: How does the government get to that? I'm not sure that the government
ever can completely understand what causes a person to be that demented, that
off his rocker, because I don't think that any rational, sane person can think
in those terms, except that if you are a religious fanatic about something and
you believe that it is your God-given duty to go out and kill people because
they're infidels, then you can convince yourself. But then it becomes a
theological issue, not just a psychological issue.

BAIER: Amy?

AMY WALTER, NATIONAL EDITOR, "COOK POLITICAL REPORT": I want to just pull it
back and talk about ISIS in a broader sense. We've had a lot of discussion now
with the Republican candidates taking sides about what to do about Assad -- keep
him there, at least he helps fill a vacuum that would get filled without him
there with radical jihadists, or take him out. Where are you on this?

HUCKABEE: Assad is not our immediate problem. Assad has not killed or kidnapped
Americans. The Iranians have and we made a deal with them. That doesn't make
sense to me.

It makes more sense to me to not worry as much about Assad even though I don't
trust him, I don't like him, and I don't think he's a good guy. But our
immediate threat is the Islamic jihad not only branch of ISIS and Al Qaeda and
Boko Haram, but those that are beheading Christians, that are infiltrating the
United States and doing dastardly deeds like we saw in San Bernardino.

I have the same attitude about Russia and Putin. I know many of my Republican
colleagues say I don't Russia, I don't trust Putin. We shouldn't have anything
to do with them. Look, my feeling is, if the Russians and Putin are willing to
go after ISIS members and kill them, we should not get in their way. In fact we
should thank them for being will to do that. We'll fight the battles that we
have with them on another day on another platform. Right now the immediate
threat we have is let's get rid of this malignant cancer and cut it out before
it metastasizes and kills more Americans.

BAIER: Chuck?

CHARLES LANE, OPINION WRITER, "WASHINGTON POST": I was going to pick up on that,
because it's really not that simple. Russia, as we know, is not really striking
ISIS targets so far in Syria. And also Russia doesn't do anything for free. So
my question to you would be this, to get Russia actually to fight ISIS instead
of talking about it, which is what they're doing now, what would you be willing
to trade? If Vladimir Putin came to you and said we want you to back off of the
Baltics, we want to you back off in Ukraine, we want help with that, that and
the other of our concerns, what would you be willing to give him?

HUCKABEE: Well, I'm not sure that we, we're in a position where we want to give
him anything. I think it's a matter of making sure that he understands that the
only reason we welcome him to the world stage without contempt is because he
would like to do something in return and retaliation for ISIS knocking down an
airliner with 224 of his people on board. That doesn't mean anything to him.

LANE: He's not doing anything militarily to ISIS.

HUCKABEE: I'm not sure that that's true. I'm not sure that he is doing nothing
to fight ISIS. He may not be doing what we want him to do. He may not be doing
what we wished he would do. But to say that Russia has no interest at all in
taking any of the people from ISIS out, I don't necessarily agree with that.

LANE: In return for the little bitty thing he's doing against ISIS right now,
you would be prepared to say let Assad, who is butchering all of these people
and driving them into Europe as refugees, leave him in power just in return for
that little, bitty, tiny thing?

HUCKABEE: It's not a matter of thinking he's doing a wonderful job and we should
leave him there and let's give him a Nobel Peace Prize. I'm just saying that he
is not the immediate target that we need to focus upon. If there are two houses,
one's on fire and one isn't, where do you put the water? You put the water on
the one that is raging in flames. Right now what's raging in flames is ISIS is
cutting people's heads off, ISIS is gaining ground. They're not contained.
That's where we need to take the fire truck and that's where we need to put the
water.

BAIER: More with Governor Huckabee after a quick break.

BAIER: Governor Mike Huckabee is in our Center Seat tonight. Governor, you are a
proponent of the fair tax.

HUCKABEE: Yes.

BAIER: And there are many critics of the fair tax. One of them is AEI's Alan
Viard. AD he calls the fair tax, quote "a big shift in the tax burden away from
high-income groups toward middle income, lower income groups. And whatever you
think about that politically, I think that's just not viable."

HUCKABEE: Well, he's wrong. And he takes the same position that a lot of people
have taken without understanding the actual fair tax, most of which comes from a
study that the Bush administration did on tax policy. They looked at the
consumption tax. They didn't actually look at the fair tax, though they think
they did.

The fair tax empowers people at the bottom third of the economy most of all by
about 14 percent, 15 percent. People in the middle third of the economy benefit
seven percent or eight percent. It's the people at the top who benefit the
least, still four or five percent. But because there's a provision in the fair
tax called a pre-bate that essentially un-taxes poor people for their basic
necessities, that it is the single most-empowering approach to taxation. It's
bold. It's different, and it brings jobs back to the very people in those middle
class areas who don't have them right now.

BAIER: But on the back end of that, it's viable. Is it viable? Because tough get
something through this Congress, and you know how Washington works.

HUCKABEE: Yes.

BAIER: The big ideas --

HUCKABEE: It's not viable unless you have a president who can explain it, sell
it, and lead it, because it isn't going to happen. It's 80 current congressional
sponsors of the fair tax with the bill that's in place. It's not going to happen
if you just have Congressional support. It's only going to happen if you have a
president that actually can go out there and help the American people to see
what this does to bring working capital back to America, get manufacturing jobs
back and also help alleviate the economic incentive of illegal immigration,
which the fair tax would help do.

BAIER: Amy?

WALTER: I want to talk about two of your proposals, Social Security and ethanol
subsidies. In both cases you're arguing we don't need to have major reform,
structural reform on Social Security and Medicare, and that you want to continue
the ethanol subsidies. How do you square that with a philosophy that also
government is too big and that our deficit is too high? How do you not have to
tackle both of those things?

HUCKABEE: Let's take Social Security first. That's not the government's money.
People paid that in. Every paycheck I ever had since the age of 14 when I
started working. No one asked me if I wanted to give that money into an account
at the Social Security fund. It was taken out of me.

Now you have people who are approaching the age of retirement, Social Security
benefits, and then somebody says, hey, we're going to extend the age at which
you retire. And oh, and by the way, we're going to means test you. All that
money you put in, you may not need it after all.

Talk about big government. How big government is it when the government makes
the decision for me to take the money and then makes the decision not give it to
me after I've paid it in?

WALTER: Do you believe we can continue on this path that we're on right now
without reform?

HUCKABEE: If our economy were growing at four percent a year, just four percent
-- I think we could do better than that, but at four percent we fully fund
Social Security and Medicare. We've got more people talking about how we need to
cut benefits for seniors and how we need to rid ourselves of these programs that
people have depended on. With Social Security alone you've got 70 million people
depend upon Social Security. More than a third of them, that's 90 percent of
their income. Rather than talk about how to trim those benefits from them. Why
don't we talk about growing the economy, giving everybody's boat higher water to
float in? That makes a whole lot more sense to me.

BAIER: But on the second part, Larry Lawyer writes in on Twitter, he says
"Adulterating our gasoline with ethanol is a bad idea for everyone except corn
farmers. Why support it?"

HUCKABEE: Well, first of all, the government mandated it, and the government
encouraged people to go out and build this extraordinary infrastructure to take
care of not just ethanol but biofuels, which are renewable. Green people ought
to love this. The result has been 16 percent lower cost in energy for the
consumer and a greener outcome.

So on one hand you have people saying, well, you know this is what the
government mandated. This is a classic bait-and-switch from Washington. They
mandate it. Billions of dollars are spent to create the infrastructure to
deliver biofuels, and then the next thing you know the government says we were
just kidding. So all these people who made the investments, we're going to
gut-punch them again? This is why people hate Washington.

BAIER: So it's not about Iowa. It's not about votes at the caucus?

HUCKABEE: I was saying the same thing when I wasn't a candidate. I was saying
the same thing before I was a presidential candidate.

BAIER: Charlie?

HURT: It is interesting you had an op-ed this morning in "The Des Moines
Register." And I was wondering why it appeared in "The Des Moines Register," but
I think I know why.

HUCKABEE: I'm not going to kid you. I'm trying to win Iowa. Let's not be coy
about that. But it's not that the position on that was just because of the
election.

HURT: OK, but at a time, and you yourself have just said this, at a time when
energy prices are falling, a lot of this innovation is appears to be working on
its own now. Why do we -- why do I need to subsidize, why do the taxpayers and
the rest of the country have to subsidize this?

HUCKABEE: Ultimately I think if you want to look at long-term, we won't need
subsidies. But in the meantime, as we're developing the extraordinary necessary
infrastructure to make this work, my goal is to see us become the number one
energy exporter in the world. Do you have any idea what would happen if we
changed the balance of power, if we became the exporter of energy to Europe,
Africa, and Asia, and we took that market away from Russia, the Saudis, and the
Iranians? We don't just improve the American economy. We transform the very
essence of balance of military power itself.

HURT: So would you say you're in favor of phasing out subsidies for ethanol?

HUCKABEE: In the long-term if they're no longer needed to make sure that people
whose investments have been made. You know, I just don't think you build this
infrastructure, you cause people to follow a mandate, and then you just change
the mandate in the middle. That's like changing the rules of the football game
at halftime while the guys are in the locker room. That's crazy, you can't do
that.

BAIER: Well, we are phasing out our time on this panel. We'll start with Chuck
after we get back. More with Governor Huckabee talking politics when we come
back.

BAIER: We're back with our panel, Republican presidential candidate Mike
Huckabee. Governor, you look at the latest poll out today, CNN-ORC. You are at
two percent in this poll. Donald Trump is at 36 percent in the newest poll. The
RCP, the Real Clear Politics average of recent polls, you are at 2.3 percent,
again up against 30.8. And in Iowa, where you just said you would like to win,
you are 1.7 percent. How do you tell supporters that there is a path when you
look at these polls?

HUCKABEE: The path is the way it's been for the past several election cycles. I
was at a number worse than this eight years ago. Rick Santorum was at a number
worse than that four years ago. We both ended up winning the Iowa caucuses.

BAIER: But 57 days out of the caucuses you were that low?

HUCKABEE: Yes, absolutely. And that's what people tend to forget. This is going
to be a later caucus because now we are going to be February rather than early
January. And so there's 60 days before we actually start voting. In the
meantime, you know, Trump has got a great lead, but we're a long way from that
moment. And historically, it doesn't mean that if you are leading now you are
going to be leading when the votes get counted.

BAIER: Chuck?

LANE: A lot of people in the party are saying the probable with our field or one
of the reasons Trump is running away from it is there are so darn many
candidates. And you are just above an asterisk. Several people in that
neighborhood, or at least one or two of them, Bobby Jindal comes to mind, have
already dropped out, saying in part the party needs to concentrate its fire and
get real. You've been processed by the Iowa voters as you pointed out yourself
eight years ago. Why isn't this poll really a signal that it's time to do the
right thing for the party and step aside?

HUCKABEE: That would be like asking since some the publications even represented
around the table are not number one around the marketplace, why don't they drop
out? Why don't they quit publishing? You're using up a lot of trees, a lot of
news space. Why not get out? Why keep subjecting the audience to a bigger
choice?

LANE: If you were losing money.

HUCKABEE: I'm not losing money. I'm gaining ground. I'm getting still the
opportunity to talk about issues that matter to me. And as long as that is the
case, and until somebody has voted, I'm not sure why I should surrender before a
single vote has been cast. I just think it's a big mistake when people start
predicting. Let me ask you this, did you think Donald Trump would be running way
with the polls for as long as he has back in April of this year?

LANE: No, I did not.

HUCKABEE: Then you don't know and can't tell me who is going to be winning the
Iowa caucus in 60 days. So I'm not going to drop out.

LANE: -- already had his shot at the Iowa electorate a couple times in the past.

HUCKABEE: Right. But let's wait until February 1st and see how it shakes out.

WALTER: In April of this year I said that the best candidate, most likely
nominee was going to be somebody who was a governor. Republicans electorate
loves governors. But now the top of the charts here, you got Trump, Carson, and
two senators. And the governors have not been making much of a dent. What's
going on? And is your experience not what people are looking for now?

HUCKABEE: Well, it should be, because, I mean, do you want to get on an airplane
that's flown by somebody who has never been in a cockpit before?

WALTER: Apparently the Republican electorate says yes, they do.

HUCKABEE: This shows how angry people are at government and particularly at
Washington. What we have to do is remind them I have never had a paycheck from
Washington. Never worked and lived in the city. So don't blame me for what this
mess is. Look at what I was able to do in a very partisan, the most partisan
atmosphere in the entire country. Nobody had more lopsided legislature than me.
And I think you want to put somebody who has actually sat at the desk in the
executive office and made the real, tough life and death decisions.

BAIER: You took the pledge governor, but you would support a nominee in Donald
Trump?

HUCKABEE: I would for a couple of reasons. Number one, I still think he would be
better president than Hillary Clinton. I know both of them, and believe me, I
would vote for Trump in a heartbeat.

Secondly, the Republican Party asked all of us to pledge our loyalty to the
party. Isn't the party not going to pledge their loyalty to whichever one of us
wins? If they don't, then that's absolutely unacceptable, and they should have
to answer why they don't commit upfront that they will support whoever the
nominee is.

BAIER: Charlie?

HURT: If you are not running for the nomination, could you see yourself with the
rest of the field, would you support Donald Trump? And would you look at so many
establishment Republicans who have such a hard time, you know, the acrimony that
they have for him, you know, why don't, why do they not understand what so many
voters right now see in Donald Trump?

HUCKABEE: And I would say one of the questions is, will Donald Trump throws his
support to me if I get the nomination? Let's hope that happens, too. I've
pledged I'm going to support the Republican nominee. I'm a team player, always
have been. The party provides an extraordinary level of resources for us to be a
part of this process. They spend millions of dollars building the party
infrastructure. So we should respect that and we should support the party and
its nominee. I just think that goes both ways and the party needs to support
whoever our nominee is by the votes of the people.

BAIER: Governor, thank you. That is it for the Center Seat panel, but stay tuned
for some political food for thought.

BAIER: Finally tonight, political issues can be complicated and hard to digest,
but our Center Seat guest likes to simplify things with food metaphors.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HUCKABEE: I don't think we can just abandon the region for the simple reason
that it doesn't get better with age. This isn't cheese. This isn't beef.

Republicans have a whole buffet, I mean, we are the Golden Corral of politics.

Politics is like opening a Baskin Robbins store.

If you are going to have sausage you have got to kill some pigs.

I wish I had had some meat that I could have put in that meat locker.

We better wake up and smell the falafel.

We're talking chicken and egg here.

It's like a 400-pound man saying I got to go on a diet but I am eating a sack of
Krispy Kreme before I do.

President Obama got rolled like a California sushi.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BAIER: I mean, there is a lot of food metaphors there, governor.

HUCKABEE: There were when you put them all together.

(LAUGHTER)

HUCKABEE: It really was a funny skit.

BAIER: I didn't know you could get a sack of Krispy Kreme.

HUCKABEE: I will bring you one.

(LAUGHTER)

BAIER: Thanks for inviting us into your home tonight. That's it for this SPECIAL
REPORT, fair, balanced, and unafraid. Greta goes ON THE RECORD right now.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120401cb.254

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               44 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            December 4, 2015 Friday

          SHOW: FOX ON THE RECORD WITH GRETA VAN SUSTEREN 7:00 PM EST

FBI Investigating Massacre as Terrorism; Pres. Obama Slammed Over Handling of
ISIS; Neewest Photo of Tashfeen Malik

BYLINE: Greta Van Susteren, Trace Gallagher, Griff Jenkins, Ted Williams, Peter
Doocy, Walid Phares, Jonathan Hunt, Tucker Carlson

GUESTS: Wane Massey, Chad Sweet

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 6863  words


GRETA VAN SUSTEREN, FOX NEWS HOST: This is a FOX News alert. The FBI says
terrorism, it was terrorism.

And today, the FBI officially declaring a husband and wife killer duo carried
out an act in southern California. The evidence proving that is piling up. The
female shooter pledging her allegiance to ISIS on Facebook on the very day the
couple stormed the Inland Regional Center, slaughtering 14 innocent Americans
and injuring 21 more.

Also today ON THE RECORD, getting an inside look into the couple terrorist home.
This is the home police describe as a bomb factory. Now, we will take you inside
that house of horror. We have live team coverage from the bomb factory house to
the multiple crime scenes to our nation's capital, where just a few hours ago,
the FBI director declaring the massacre terrorism.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JAMES COMEY, FBI DIRECTOR: We're here today because we want to make sure you
understand this is now a federal terrorism investigation led by the FBI.

DAVID BOWDICH, FBI ASST DIRECTOR, LA OFFICE: We are now investigating this as an
acted of terrorism.

COMEY: The investigation so far has developed indications of radicalization by
the killers and of potential inspiration by foreign terrorist organizations.

BOWDICH: We have also uncovered that these subjects attempted to destroy their
digital fingerprints. For example, we found two cell phones in a nearby trash
can. Those cell phones were actually crushed. We have retained those cell phones
and we do continue to exploit the data from those cell phones.

COMEY: We are going through a very large volume of electronic evidence. This is
electronic evidence that these killers tried to destroy and tried to conceal
from us that we now have and are exploiting to try and understand them.

BOWDICH: We have uncovered evidence of explosive, multiple armaments, you know
that. You know the ammunition that was out there, the high-powered weapons, the
explosive devices. We are continuing to go down the path to ensure that we find
all of the evidence that pertains to this matter.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAN SUSTEREN: We begin with FOX News correspondent Trace Gallagher live in San
Bernardino -- Trace.

TRACE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Greta, federal authorities say the wife
was using an alias when she went on to Facebook and pledged her allegiance to
Abu Bakr, the leader of ISIS and that she praised ISIS right before the attacks
on the regional center.

They -- later, apparently she tried to delete the posting but as we know by now,
the Feds recovered that though they will not tell us how. The FBI also says they
have evidence that one or both of the killers spoke on the telephone with
someone in the United States that was under investigation by the Federal Bureau
of Investigation. And they had contact with people outside of the United States
that were under investigation by the FBI.

The couple tried to erase their digital footprint, smashing cell phones and hard
drives. But as you heard earlier in those sound bites, the FBI may have salvaged
them and they are trying now to recover that data. It is in Quantico in the
process of being recovered.

There is a belief that the wife is the one who radicalized the husband, became
his bomb maker and his trainer, if you will. But today, the family of Syed
Farook said that there was no evidence at all that the couple had any ties to
terrorism.

The investigation into the weapons goes on. Remember, there were four weapons,
two handguns and two assault rifles. They were bought legally two years ago. The
two handguns were purchased by Syed Farook. But the weapons, the assault rifles
were purchased by another man, believed to be a former roommate. Police know
that man's identity and they say for now he is not under arrest.

We should note that we keep hearing there was such a huge arsenal inside the
home of the killers that they could have planned a second attack or even larger
first attack. Today, the FBI began their news conference by saying that on
Monday of this week, a movie theater, they had two suspicious incidents
involving men of Middle Eastern dissent. They came by to ask questions and take
pictures. The FBI has no idea if that incident is in any way related to what
happened Wednesday, but they wanted to alert of the media that it happened just
the same -- Greta.

VAN SUSTEREN: Trace, thank you.

And today, what a stunner. We have got a look inside of that home of that killer
couple. ON THE RECORD's Griff Jenkins and Ted Williams walked through the messy
two-story home in Redlands, California, where Syed Farook and his wife and
six-month-old baby lived.

Ted and Griff are live in San Bernardino -- Griff.

GRIFF JENKINS, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Greta, that's right. It's one of the most
unprecedented accesses to a crime scene anyone in the media has gotten. You will
see all the media there. Here, Ted and I take you inside the home where the two
plotted and carried out what is now being called a heinous act of terrorism.
Take a look.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

JENKINS: We are getting a first look with other members of the media. Obviously,
of the apartment here. Ted, let's walk through and see what we see.

We know that authorities were worried about the explosives, 12 pipe bombs found
in here. We don't know the exact locations. Clearly, the authorities pulled this
place apart. Some of this mess may have been from their.

We see the window knocked out. I'm not sure what we see -- a hatchet here in the
drawer. Not necessarily something, Ted, that we find in a drawer with kitchen
utensils. A very large mallet style hatchet.

We know that the authorities went through this back area. We talked to the next
door neighbors. The Frost, they told us that these windows were shattered. We
see the glass here amidst what was the -- is the play pen for a child, a stark
and sad reminder that there is still a 6 month old daughter now without parents.

TED WILLIAMS, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Now, this is interesting here, Griff,
because here is -- when the FBI and other authorities go in a list from what
they take from the home. They actually leave here.

And what we see here is the United States Department of Justice Federal Bureau
of Investigation. And it shows a description of the various items that they have
taken from this home. And what is interesting here, we see there is ammunition
that has been taken from this home. They have removed electronics.

JENKINS: Computers there and gig bites.

WILLIAMS: Right.

JENKINS: And as we see, we can show this, can get a little closer look. The 13
boxes of 50 rounds as you say, 10 boxes of 100 rounds, 9-millimeter, 14 boxes of
50 rounds, two 23 caliber. One bag of 20,000 rounds. These are the AR-15 style
assault rifles that were used in this attack.

One thing Ted, we don't know as we get a first look is of the 12 pipe bombs,
that are believed to be in here, one would think in this back window and why we
saw the glass and the shattering was that authorities were worried it would
clearly have been booby trapped in the entry, any way that people were coming
and going out of here would be where the bombs were. Is there anything that you
see that indicates where they may have put these explosives?

WILLIAMS: Not in this area. But clearly, the explosives are very well just have
been out here in the open. And so, what law enforcement had to do was take their
time in entering this place because they were clearly concerned about booby
traps.

JENKINS: An enormous amount of information as you sees a Ted, as investigator as
former homicide cop was able to glean. Later in this show, Greta, we are going
to take you upstairs and what we found was nothing short of shocking -- Greta.

VAN SUSTEREN: Ted, having investigated that scene, was there -- having gone
inside, was there any information that they have taken a lot of information
about trace evidence? For instance did, you see a lot of fingerprint dust? Did
you go into the bomb-making area and see where weather they have printed that
area. Were there pieces of carpet cut out so they would like for some sort of
fiber samples?

Was there -- I suppose they did some swabbing for possible DNA and glass. But
was there anything hint that the FBI was also looking for trace evidence to see
if anybody else had been in there?

WILLIAMS: Well, Greta, there was no discernible hint that those things have
taken place but I have got to tell you. I think that the FBI and local and state
law enforcement officers methodically took their time. They knew what they
wanted to take from there and quite naturally as we said, they listed what they
took from there, the various pieces of evidence.

I think they did a good job of going in there, Greta, meaning the local and
state and local authorities.

VAN SUSTEREN: You know, Griff, looking at your video of what you and Ted shot,
it's it eerie. This was planned. They dropped the baby off and done a lot of
planning for this. Yet, when you look at the video it looks like they are coming
home soon. The couple is coming home soon. They have left everything, their
pictures, everything.

JENKINS: I think for any parent watching this, just to see the video as it
struck us, standing in inside there knowing that a 6 month old had been
abandoned and the materials that clearly were weapons and bomb-making materials
showed that this story did not have an ending. That this child would grow up
without parents because they had gone off to carry out this act of terrorism.

That was, perhaps, the most damning and most chilling standing amongst where we
were, Greta.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right. We will show more of what you both saw inside that
home, the upstairs. Thank you, both.

And, of course, we are getting more information, including the bloody aftermath
of the police shootout that successfully stopped and killed these two
terrorists. We warn you, this image is graphic.

TMZ has obtained this photo showing Syed Farook dead, lying in his own blood in
the street.

FOX's correspondent Peter Doocy has been looking into the murder's possible ties
to ISIS. Peter joins us -- Peter.

PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Greta, this is really interesting. When you
log into Facebook, the right away right at the top of the page, what's on your
mind. And as the carefully planned attacks in California began on Wednesday,
Tashfeen Malik told her Facebook friends in that space that she pledged
allegiance to the Islamic State and its leader Abu Bakr al Baghdadi.

Authorities announce that they recovered that post this morning. And we learned
this afternoon the timing of the post matched up with the timing of the attack.
The reason the post needed to be recovered is because Facebook deleted Malik's
account when they realized it was promoting terrorism.

The social network says they work aggressively all the time to prevent
terrorists from using their services. This was one of those times.

And the social media connection is significant because we know ISIS uses that to
recruit and that is why the State Department tried to spearhead a campaign using
messages to counter ISIS, a campaign they concluded several months ago wasn't
having the kind of success it was supposed to. It's still unclear tonight if
Facebook is how this couple in California became radicalized or if they
communicated on Facebook with any terrorists overseas.

And even though we don't know exactly what Malik wrote in this post yet, we know
it's a really important piece of evidence that helped had the FBI conclude this
was a planned terror attack. It also helped tie up a loose ends because it was
ISIS she was writing about on Facebook. Not work place violence.

VAN SUSTEREN: So she attempted to delete this passage and Facebook took the
whole account down?

DOOCY: Yes. Facebook says that they have this strict policy. They have go
through their entire network and they are looking all the time for different
words.

We do know that this post was not taken down right away. We don't know how long
it was up. But it was up for a while before somebody saw it and they deleted it.
That makes it harder for the FBI to look at it from their offices but Facebook
has given them everything that they need.

VAN SUSTEREN: I'm sure they will get a history whether she has other posts that
are suspicious. Thank you, Peter.

And the parents killers, Syed Farook and Tashfeen Malik, appeared to many to be
a normal couple, but they were killers hiding in plain sight. How did they go
unnoticed and how can we prevent this from happening again?

FOX's Mideast and terrorism expert Walid Phares joins us.

You know, everyone says the quote they were normal, even the lawyers say that
they were typical normal housewives that she was, although she was living in a
bomb factory. I don't know how typical that is.

What do you think about this?

WALID PHARES, TERRORISM EXPERT: Well, that's how they are. That's how they
should be if they are jihadists. Take most of the cases we have in the United
States, the successful ones and the unsuccessful ones, almost every time after
the fact you are going to have neighbors, you're going to have a teacher, you're
going to have a friend say they were normal. They were friends.

VAN SUSTEREN: It's interesting how everyone is now -- I shouldn't say -- people
are now saying that radicalized him. Yet, we also hear from the lawyers today
that she was dressed in a burqa. She didn't talk to men. She didn't drive. She
hardly seems to be the aggressive type when you hear that picture of her.

PHARES: So, what would be -- my question for the lawyers, what would be the
aggressive type? We don't know what the jihadi --

VAN SUSTEREN: Oh, no, no. She is plain killer.

PHARES: If they are saying she did not display anything radical. What would that
mean? Otherwise the radicals those writing blogs as well on Facebook. She was
not. She would hide her activities and her thoughts so that she would be
successful operationally.

VAN SUSTEREN: You know, I always want to, like, you can read an English post.
You know, I can pretty much whether it's terrorist or not. But some of these are
written in Arabic. So many of these communications that, you know, I imagine
that so many we miss. I know we have experts in the FBI. But, still.

PHARES: We do have excellent experts within the FBI. Even when you write in
Arabic, you are not going to putted operational Arabic so that the FBI law
enforcement are going to see it but the difference is that we know as experts if
she is extremist, if the narrative is extremist, she should be in a pool. What
happens is the administration removed that poll. They called extremist as
freedom of though. So, that's where we have a gap between extremists and
terrorists.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right. Walid breaking right now, we are seeing the first
picture of Tashfeen Malik. This photo was obtained by ABC News. She is the
female terrorist who pledged her allegiance to Facebook on Facebook before
slaughtering 14 innocent people during the San Bernardino terror attacks.

Look at that woman. That's a picture of evil.

PHARES: Well, now we know unfortunately there are a lot of pictures like her but
not everybody is violent. The issue is not now, we are --

VAN SUSTEREN: She is showing her face. That's not a burqa. She's showing her
face.

PHARES: She is showing her face and obviously many people before that has
testified she has shown her face. The issue is, what was inside her mind? What
was inside her narrative and what were her actions? And that was not --

VAN SUSTEREN: How does she go under the -- the bigger question is how she go
under the radar? I understand that it's hard to get a homegrown terrorist or
something about this. But she was under the radar apparently to so many people
other than people must have been suspicious if she was buying bomb equipment or
if he was.

PHARES: She is not going to do that actually, I suspect that most of those who
are like her who are going to conduct successful operations are not on any list.
And the FBI knows that.

VAN SUSTEREN: And, again, that picture right there. That is the evil terrorist.
ABC News obtained that picture. But that is the first picture we are seeing of
this woman, Pakistani descent. And she came over to the United States to marry
this man.

PHARES: Spend some anytime Saudi Arabia. We don't know much about that as well.

VAN SUSTEREN: I assume we will get it very soon. There she is. There is the
terrorist.

Anyway, Walid, thank you.

PHARES: Thank you.

VAN SUSTEREN: The focus of the media, with the exception, of course, of "The New
York Daily News", has been on the killers.

So, who are these killers and why? Of course, it's also very important to noted
something else, 14 innocent Americans were murdered, slaughtered by these two
horrible people.

FOX's correspondent Jonathan Hunt, though, has more on these 14 victims and the
family who's lives have been forever changed -- Jonathan.

JONATHAN HUNT, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: If you wanted to find a cross section of
America, you could have walked into the holiday party being held at the Inland
Regional Center in San Bernardino Wednesday and found it hard-working fathers,
mothers, sons and daughters, black, white, Hispanic, Asian, some born here, some
immigrants who had fled other countries to escape persecution or violence.

Then violence found them. And last night, thousands gathered at a candle lit
vigil to remember the 14 gunned down and killed so brutally at that party.

Among them, Bennetta Bet-Badal, she was 46 years old and left her native Iran
when she was 18, apparently to escape Islamic extremism and to pursue her
husband said the American dream.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ARLEN VERDEHYOU, VICTIM'S HUSBAND: She had that opportunity. She raised her
beautiful three kids. Got the house, education, work and enjoying life.
Vacationing spending time with the family, unfortunately taken away by an evil
man and evil woman.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HUNT: Thirty-one-year-old Tin Nguyen was another who came to America for a
better life. Her mother fled Vietnam when Tin was 8 years old to bring her to
the United States. Her father said that just days ago, Tin was trying on wedding
dresses. She planned to marry her boyfriend in 2017.

Nicholas Thalasinos was 52 years old and worked with Syed Farook, one of the
shooters. Thalasinos was a messianic Jew. And while he was apparently outspoken
about Islamic terrorism, he got along well with, according to his wife, with his
Muslim colleague. Jennifer Thalasinos also said her husband always put others
first and she said she is cherishing the memory of her last moments with him.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JENNIFER THALASINOS, VICTIM'S WIFE: And he dropped me off. I had snack day at my
job. I'm a second grade teacher.

I had snacks I needed to bring in. He said I will bring them no for you. I got
an extra hug and kiss before he left. So, I'm just holding on to that I'm just
grateful for that.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HUNT: Forty-year-old Robert Adams grew up in the San Bernardino area. He married
his high school sweetheart. For years, they tried to have kids. Twenty months
ago, their daughter Savanna was born. Friends said he doted on her, taking her
to play in a local park almost every day. Posting pictures of her on Facebook
every night.

Those are just snapshots of four lives, Greta, four of 14 ordinary American
lives taken in such an extraordinary and brutal fashion -- 14 families
devastated, struggling like the rest of us to understand why -- Greta.

VAN SUSTEREN: You know, Jonathan, every single one I read there was a father I
think he was 37 years old with six children. There are these hateful, horrible
people.

Anyway, Jonathan, thank you.

And today, the White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest calling this massacre an
act of terrible violence. But our FBI director stepping up to the mike just
hours later and declaring this an act of terror. So, why hasn't the president?
That's next.

Plus, ON THE RECORD will take you back inside this deadly couple's home. That's
coming up.

VAN SUSTEREN: Breaking right now, today, the FBI director announcing what you
all though, this was an act of terror. But so far, President Obama has been
silent, silent, despite this now been the single deadliest terror attack on
American soil since 9/11.

"FOX AND FRIENDS WEEKEND" co-host Tucker Carlson goes ON THE RECORD.

Tucker, when are we going to hear from the president?

TUCKER CARLSON, CO-HOST, "FOX & FRIENDS WEEKEND": Probably soon. I imagine there
is a lot of political pressure growing on him, not least from the Hillary
Clinton campaign. At some point, denial becomes delusion and we are approaching
that point. So, I think he is going to have to acknowledge this is part of a
pattern and it joins the Paris attack and the downing of this Russian airliner,
of course, in taking of a good portion of the country of Iraq and also Syria as
signs of the growing threat of ISIS.

What bothers me, though, is his inability. I don't think it's just an
unwillingness. I don't think he can understand their motives. He today explained
that they are doing this because they are mad about global warming or they're
angry about being poor, as if people commit murder or kill themselves because of
economic reasons.

These are people motivated by religious instincts. They think they are going to
heaven by doing. He doesn't understand that and that's scary.

VAN SUSTEREN: Well, you know, it's been quite obvious. Obviously, the FBI does
have to wait until it has proof.

CARLSON: Of course.

VAN SUSTEREN: Indeed it was.

But listen to what Josh Earnest said today just a short time before the FBI
director said this is an act of terrorism. Here is the White House press
secretary for the president.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JOSH EARNEST, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: Looks like people intent on carrying
out act of violence.

BOWDICH: We are investigating these horrific acts as an act of terrorism.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAN SUSTERN: Terrible act of violence. That's what he says this afternoon. I'm
thinking to myself what is he talking about.

You got the problem that the day before terrorists, President Obama is saying
that ISIS is contained and we have these maps which show you that ISIS is not
contained. It's growing. So, I just don't get this.

CARLSON: Well, the president seems all alone in this. I mean, Josh Earnest isn't
stupid. He knows his words are in effect parody of the truth. It's absurd. And
everyone knows it's absurd.

I think political considerations play a role here. Muslims are a key
constituency for Democrats. They will be a key player in this upcoming
presidential election. That's not a small thing.

But I think it's bigger than that. The president sees this and almost else in
American life as part of an ongoing civil rights battle. And the main concern he
has and I think his attorney general has, she said it yesterday, there will be
backlash against Muslims.

Nobody wants that. That is a concern. Is it the top concern? No. It's maybe the
fifth concern after getting shot to death in the shopping mall. But that's the
way he sees the world.

VAN SUSTEREN: You can see the two maps. One is February 2015 and then you've got
November. Look at the difference in the red. The president said it's contained,
nothing but growing.

Here is what I don't understand the president such an important thing, terrorist
violence since 9/11 for us is that the president sends out FBI director and
attorney general that he doesn't take over and show -- and make the statement to
the American people?

CARLSON: Well, that's an excellent point. I mean, there is a lot of daylight
between the FBI director Mr. Comey and the president on this and other issues.
The FBI has taken steps pretty obvious ones, public ones in the last several
months to say, look, we are independent of the White House.

Among other things this is a bad sign for Hillary Clinton who is being
investigated by them as you know. I think it's admirable on the part of the FBI.
You want FBI that's independent of political interference. So, again, good for
Director Comey.

But it makes the like the president again standing out by himself muttering
about how the earth is flat. It's unbecoming. It's embarrassing and it makes
people like Donald Trump much stronger.

Americans look at the president. They don't think he is going to protect them.
Starting to suspect people like Trump will. That's one of the reasons his
numbers are going up, Trump's are.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right. Lot is going on. We keep getting new facts and tomorrow
on "FOX & FRIENDS" I assume you have that as well, Tucker, on the weekend. Thank
you, Tucker.

CARLSON: Thanks a million, Greta.

VAN SUSTEREN: And ON THE RECORD will take you back inside the home where the two
terrorist murderers live with their infant daughter and made bombs. We're live
next.

VAN SUSTEREN: This is a Fox News alert. We are now seeing the first picture of
Tashfeen Malik. This photo was obtained by ABC News. She is the female terrorist
who pledged her allegiance to ISIS on Facebook. The FBI now announcing she
pledged her allegiance to is before carrying out the carnage.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We are now investigating this as an act of terrorism.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is now a federal terrorism investigation led by the FBI.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We have the mandate to investigate terrorism to its fullest
extent.

COMEY: Our investigation to date and, again, it's only two days old, so far we
have no indication that these killers are part of an organized larger group or
formed part of a cell. There is no indication that they are part of a network.
Again, I quickly add it is early. We are still working very hard to understand,
but I wanted you to know that so far we don't see such indications. Second,
there is nothing in our holdings about these two killers. I have seen reporting
where folks have focused on reports that they were in contact. At least one of
the killers was in contact with people, who had been the subject of FBI
investigations, either investigations that were closed or that were still open.
I would urge you not to make too much of that.

BOWDICH: Those cell phones were actually crushed. We have retained those cell
phones and we do continue to exploit the data from those cell phones. We do hope
that the digital fingerprints that were left by these two individuals will take
us towards their motivation.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAN SUSTEREN: And now we are seeing inside heir home, their bomb factory. This
is where they lived and planned that attack. Fox News Correspondent Will Carr is
live outside the killer couple's home, Will?

WILL CARR: Good evening, Greta. Earlier today, the FBI coming out and now saying
this is a federal terrorism investigation. They say extreme planning went into
this. Now, earlier in the day we confirmed that Tashfeen Malik had posted on
Facebook the day of the shooting that she had pledged her allegiance to ISIS. It
was a short time after we confirmed that that the owner of the apartment showed
up here. He said that authorities had turned the apartment over to him and he
offered to take us inside. We were careful not to touch any personal
possessions, but I want to show you what we did see, take a look.

We're outside of the apartment in Redlands, California where Syed Farook and
Tashfeen Malik lived with their six month old baby and Farook's grandmother. The
FBI had to actually go in through the window here because they were concerned
that the apartment was booby trapped. We will walk you inside. As you know now,
they ended up finding 12 IEDs. This has been called an IED factory. We spoke to
the owner, the man who owns this apartment. And asked him what his reaction was
when he found out his tenants were the ones behind this massacre. Take a listen
to what he said.

DOYLE MILLER, LANDLORD: It is not real.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What Syed seem like to you?

MILLER: He seemed like a normal person.

CARR: Much of the apartment appeared normal. It is what we didn't see that was
alarming. The FBI left receipts inside for what they took out, the receipt
showed thousands of rounds of ammunition, guns, technology like laptops and hard
drives. All of what they would have used on Wednesday to pull off the deadly
attack, Greta.

VAN SUSTEREN: Will, thank you.

And we are learning more about this evil killer couple Syed Farook, this
American citizen but his wife Tashfeen Malik, she came here in a special visa
from her fiance American citizens. How much screening did she get? Immigration
Lawyer Wane Massey goes On the Record, good evening, sir.

WANE MASSEY, IMMIGRATION LAWYER: Good evening.

VAN SUSTEREN: She was here on what is called a K1 visa. What is that?

MASSEY: The K1 visa is visa used by American citizens who want to bring their
fiance to the United States, essentially they petition the government to
classify individual abroad as a fiance And the petition goes through, DHS
forwards it to the Department of State for an interview.

VAN SUSTEREN: Now, in connection with this, I imagine there is some screening. I
saw some reference in the State Department they do extensive screening, and I
looked a little bit deeper and all that was said was they do fingerprints and
some facial recognition software, which is not particularly extensive in my
mind. Maybe they do more. Do you know how, "extensive" this screening is?

MASSEY: I have some idea of how extensive it is. Essentially, they run the
fingerprints and photograph as you learned on the website. They also run by
graphic information about the individual against FBI data bases, international
criminal databases, and other databases maintained by various agencies in the
U.S. government. If a person has not created a flag in any of those databases,
then they wouldn't come up in the security checks obviously.

VAN SUSTEREN: All right, well, I guess -- quibble with the State Department the
definition of what is extensive. Basically, a woman with no record can come here
on a K1, right, that's essentially what it is.

MASSEY: When you say no record, she has no criminal record of any kind.

VAN SUSTEREN: Is there an interview.

MASSEY: There is an interview, yes. So there is an interview at the counselor
post. She is interviewed in person after her biometrics have been run, and even
after that, I understand she was able to apply for and was granted conditional
residence status which means she was also interviewed by DHS here in the United
States. There just not have been any flags.

VAN SUSTEREN: She comes to the United States and has to get married within 90
days provided she does she is eligible for a green card.

MASSEY: She is eligible to apply, yes.

VAN SUSTEREN: Any idea the number of people who come in on these fiance visas a
year?

MASSEY: I don't know the exact number, but I think this past year it's somewhere
around 35,000.

VAN SUSTEREN: And is there sort of a part of the world where they come from? Do
we have -- are these countries that offer us something like a K1 visa,
Americans?

MASSEY: I don't know that we have reciprocity with all of them for fiance visas,
no. But many of them have diplomatic relations with us obviously, that's why we
have counselor posts there.

VAN SUSTEREN: Do you have any idea what nations tend to be most represented in
terms of K1 visas?

MASSEY: I do not, sorry.

VAN SUSTEREN: Thank you very much. I appreciate you.

MASSEY: All right. Thanks for having me.

VAN SUSTEREN: And On the Record goes inside the bomb factory home where the
terrorists lived. That's coming up.

VAN SUSTEREN: The media swarming the terror couple's home after the FBI released
the scene. On the Record's Griff Jenkins and Ted Williams joins us inside. This
is live in San Bernardino with what they found on the second floor, Griff?

GRIFF JENKINS: That's right, Greta. As we mentioned earlier, now we take you
upstairs which for not only this homicide detective and federal agent but also
for any reporter and all our viewers will see the most shocking part of what we
found in the house. Take a look.

Let's go upstairs, Ted, and have a look and see.

WILLIAMS: As we are going up the stairs, we see a dark green carpet that is
outlined or the stairway here. There is nothing certainly out of the ordinary
here. The only concern that law enforcement would have had in entering this
place was, was it booby trapped?

JENKINS: This seems to be the closet for the mother.

WILLIAMS: What is very interesting about this closet is what law enforcement
saw. When you look up above here, there was -- where law enforcement, I am sure
made some entrance to go up here in this ceiling area here to make some kind of
determination as to whether they could find anything connected with this family
that they may have very well hidden up there.

JENKINS: We are in the child's room. We see the nursery. We're literally -- we
will look in the closet.

Ted, let me bring your attention here. This is something that you wouldn't find
in the closet is of an infant. This is Remington gun oil for cleaning your gun,
lubricating and corrosive protecting firearm stuff. We see here magnum precision
air rifle. If you can, let's have a look and see what's in here. Multiple,
multiple air rifle ammunition, clearly we had heard that there had been
targeting going on in the backyard, the backyard not very big. This is
fascinating that we find any kind of weapon in the closet of the room that is
clearly where the child slept.

WILLIAMS: You know what is more fascinating is that law enforcement left some of
these kinds of items here after scrubbing this home.

JENKINS: Greta, those pellets as you can certainly look back at the cases of
pipe bombs, IEDs, improvised explosive devices, we see pellets used as part of
those bomb making materials. Something that certainly stood out, Ted, I know you
were taken aback that we would find actual bomb-making materials still inside
that house.

WILLIAMS: Absolutely. And in light of the fact that we were told by law
enforcement that they found 12 pipe bombs in there, to find those pellets, those
pellets are clearly used as bomb-making material, Greta.

VAN SUSTEREN: Ted, before I let you go. I want to ask you about the lawyers for
the family that gave the press conference today. You were there. I have to tell
you from here it seemed peculiar calling the woman terrorist a typical normal
housewife, obviously not in my mind. She makes bombs.

WILLIAMS: Greta, there comes a time where lawyers are just stuck on stupid.
That's one of those instances. This is not a typical house where you go in and
find 12 pipe bombs. You find bomb making material. You find over 5,000 rounds of
ammunition. I don't know what these lawyers were talking about, but it's a sad
commentary when we find lawyers coming out in the public domain after 14
individuals have been shot dead, 21 injured, and to make such disingenuous
statements.

VAN SUSTEREN: I think they were just over their heads in this because that was,
to quote the president, "J.V." Anyway, not to mention just a horrible
mischaracterization of this woman, because she was hardly your typical housewife
whatever that means anyway.

And the San Bernardino massacre officially a terror attack. How does that change
the investigation? That's straight ahead.

VAN SUSTEREN: Now that the FBI has declared the San Bernardino massacre was an
act of terrorism, how does this change the investigation? We are also getting
our first look at both suspects, the female shooter's picture came by ABC News,
and Former Chief of Staff of the Department of Homeland security and Former CIA
Director of Operations Chad Suite goes On the Record, good evening, sir.

CHAD SWEET, FORMER CIA OFFICIAL: Good evening. And just for the record, I wasn't
the Director of Operations. I was in the Director of Operations.

VAN SUSTEREN: Thank you. According to the FBI, the killers, terrorists were
trying to erase their digital fingerprint and they smashed those cell phones.
Tell me, what are they trying to do now?

SWEET: Obviously, what we know they are attempting to cover their digital
footprint as you said, Greta. Given your legal background you know how important
that is for investigations. What's important to know right now though is that in
addition to the cell phones they obtained a computer, multiple thumb drives, and
a music player. So from that -- all those different forms of media, our law
enforcement experts are well prepared to diagnose and determine and connect the
dots of those footprints. One of the most important things to know is in this
will be a historic investigation. Why, because this will be the first major
investigation after the NSA's domestic surveillance program has been reformed by
people such as Senator Cruz.

The government's ability to equally powerful to determine if connected with this
just like in Paris all law enforcement and intelligence officials will be able
to track to down efficiently and bring them to justice.

VAN SUSTEREN: Now, you mentioned a law that's been changed. I mean the main
difference as I understand it now to get that metadata is now held by the
telephone companies and not by the government. The investigators simply have to
get a warrant to get it from the telephone company unless there is an emergency
unless they can bypass it they can get the information, right? There is no
impediment?

SWEET: Absolutely, Greta. In fact, I think one of the unfortunate things there
is some like Senator Marco Rubio who have asserted that the government cannot
access under the new solution that Senator Cruz and others proposed to get
access to those we suspect of terrorism or who have actually committed acts of
terror. That is actually incorrect. If you look at the evidence and don't take
my word for it, the Director of National Intelligence in a letter dated May 15th
stated very clearly that the USA Freedom Act preserves the essential operational
capabilities of the program and, in fact, Greta, it expanded the intelligence
capabilities to include things such as cell phones which are now involved in
this case.

VAN SUSTEREN: Indeed they are. Chad, thank you very much.

SWEET: Thank you, Greta.

VAN SUSTEREN: Coming up, the pictures inside this home are disturbing. Was it
right to go in? I will tell you what I think off-the-record, of course. And some
of you may not agree with me.

VAN SUSTEREN: This is a Fox News alert, terrorists inspired by ISIS Tashfeen
Malik pledging allegiance to ISIS on Facebook. Fox News Correspondent Adam
Housley is live at the terrorists' home, Adam.

ADAM HOUSLEY: Yes, Greta. In fact, we do expect major developments as this case
moves forward. We know agents, federal and local are doing everything they can
to find possible money trail. They also have not ruled out the possibility that
these two might have somehow connected with Al Qaeda. They are saying it may not
just be an ISIS situation. They really don't know exactly that part of the
investigative process. But they do know as of tonight they do believe other
people, another person, somebody helped them in some way. They don't believe
they could have afforded to do what they did without that help.

Where does that lead? Greta, we don't know at this hour. They are doing whatever
they can to find out as the night moves on, but of course, the headline today
the fact that the FBI officially now says that they are investigating an act of
terrorism, Greta?

VAN SUSTEREN: Adam, thank you.

Ok, let's go off-the-record now. I have to admit I am conflicted. As a
journalist, of course the reporter should go in the terrorist' home to get all
the information they can. That's our job to get you all the information we can.
But I am also a lawyer. And I cringe at the bad judgment of the FBI to release
that crime scene so soon. What were they thinking? Yes, the two terrorists are
dead so there would be no trial for them. What if others were involved? Maybe
others were in that house giving them money finance that massacre or build
bombs. Anyone inside that home left trace evidence like fingerprints, DNA, and
new information could arise making the FBI want to go back and look again in
case they missed it.

Now, remember the OJ Simpson case, the murders were on June 12th but the police
went back to the murder scene three weeks later and found OJ's blood for the
first time on the back gate. Sometimes items might not seem relevant at first.
Another example, within hours of finding Simpson's ex- wife dead, law
enforcement saw dark wet clothes in OJ's washer in Rockingham. They never seized
those clothes, maybe because at the time those clothes might not have seemed
that important. You get my point. Never release a crime scene too early. So,
yes, what's the FBI thinking or wasn't it?

That's my off-the-record comment tonight. Stay with Fox News all weekend for
late breaking developments on the San Bernardino terrorism, and set your DVR to
record On the Record so you never miss a show. If you can't watch On the Record
live, then play back On the Record after you are finished watching other
favorite Fox programs, how about 11:01 each night. That's the ABC News picture
of the killer. That's the woman. That's the terrorists. That's the massacre --
the one who did the massacre, she and her husband, evil, evil, evil.

Terrorist, rotten, doesn't get any worse than that. We will see you Monday night
right here 7:00 p.m. Eastern. Good night from Washington.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120401cb.260

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BREAKING NEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               45 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            December 4, 2015 Friday

                     SHOW: THE O'REILLY FACTOR 8:00 PM EST

The War on Terror; Interview with Gov. Chris Christie

BYLINE: Chris Wallace

GUESTS: Aaron Cohen, Jim Hanson, Bret Stephens, James Woolsey, Chris Christie,
Caitlin Huey-Burns, Philip Bump, Michael Wildes, Mike Gallagher

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 7139  words


CHRIS WALLACE, FOX NEWS HOST: Good evening, I'm Chris Wallace, in for Bill
O'Reilly. Thanks for watching this special edition of THE O'REILLY FACTOR, "The
War on Terror". And let's get right to our top story.

And let's get right to our top story: the investigation into the San Bernardino
shooting. Big developments today with the FBI confirming what many have
suspected about the attack.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DAVID BOWDICH, FBI ASST. DIR. LOS ANGELES: As of today, based on the information
and the facts as we know them, we are now investigating these horrific acts as
an act of terrorism.

There are some telephonic connections between these two individuals, at least
one of these individuals and other subjects of our investigation.

I'm aware of the Facebook posts you are mentioning and I saw the same thing you
did. We don't know what's there yet. We are still continuing to look into that.
I know it was in a general timeline where that post was made and yes there was a
pledge of allegiance.

We are not aware of any further threats in the U.S. at this time.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WALLACE: That means the San Bernardino rampage is now the single deadliest
terror attack on U.S. soil since 9/11. FBI director James Comey also came out
today to comment on the investigation.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JAMES COMEY, FBI DIRECTOR: This is now a federal terrorism investigation led by
the FBI. And the reason for that is that the investigation so far has developed
indications of radicalization by the killers and of the potential inspiration by
foreign terrorist organizations.

So far we have no indication that these killers are part of an organized larger
group or form part of a cell. There is no indication that they are part of a
network.

We know this is very unsettling for the people of the United States. But what we
hope you will do is not let fear become disabling but to instead try to channel
it into an awareness of your surroundings, to get you to a place where you are
living your life but if you see something that doesn't make sense, you say
something to somebody.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WALLACE: Joining us now with more from Los Angeles, is counterterrorism
specialist Aaron Cohen; and with me here in Washington Jim Hanson from the
Center for Security Policy.

Gentlemen -- I want to talk about this from a counter terrorism perspective,
which is both of your expertise.

Aaron, I think the biggest question for a lot of people is how a husband and
wife, living in a quiet American town could become so radicalized and assemble
such an enormous arsenal and apparently no one knew. You say that this is what
you would call a modified sleeper cell. Explain that sir.

AARON COHEN, COUNTERTERRORISM EXPERT: Well, it's -- the modified sleeper cell is
a term that I'm using to describe somebody who could potentially become
radicalized meaning using ISIS -- the genius in ISIS is their ability to be able
to use the Internet to connect with would be or potential radicals which means
they don't have to have crossed the threshold, Chris and already be at that
place where they are ready to go commit an act of terror.

But when they do become radicalized like these two did, when they travel
overseas, they go pick up that wife in Saudi Arabia, they end up becoming
indoctrinated. And Saudi Arabia is known, Chris, to have a very strong hard core
Islamic line when it comes to the way that they preach.

You can then tap into that sleeper cell and then exploit that like we saw here.
And provide them with how to attain weapons, how to keep those weapons in their
houses, how to use tactical gear. Put on that gear and then be able to fire
those weapons. And this is all being done on the Internet through secure
databases and blogs.

WALLACE: Let me bring in Jim Hanson here because I want to talk about the wife.
One of the big developments today was the fact that Tashfeen Malik the wife of
Syed Farook apparently pledged allegiance to ISIS and to its leader Abu Bakr al
Baghdadi in the moments before this attack was launched.

One -- what do you make that and two what do you make of reports which don't
seem to be confirmed at this point that she may have radicalized him?

JIM HANSON, CENTER FOR SECURITY POLICY: I think it is fairly common in incidents
like this for someone to make a martyrdom action. In this case she's posting
potentially while he is inside reconning the site of the massacre and she posts
a message pledging allegiance.

They are basically saying we are in the jihad. We are part of the caliphate. We
are part of the global jihad movement.

And I think that's not uncommon. I think you need to look at this. Chris it's
easy for people to understand the violent jihad. Heads get cut off. People get
slaughtered at holiday parties.

But there is a larger civilization jihad that the Muslim Brotherhood is
perpetrating in America. They have a plan. They are using the Muslim student
associations that they formed. They are using mosques where they buy the land
where they import the imams and front groups to go ahead and push that agenda.

WALLACE: I want to pick up on that with you, Jim. Because you say that the
mosques that Farook attended, one of a couple that he attended the Islamic
Center of Riverside, you've raised questions about that and its ties to the
Muslim Brotherhood. What's your point?

HANSON: The Muslim Brotherhood through a number of front groups, one of which is
the North American Islamic Trust has bought property and put in place most of
the mosques in the United States. So they buy them, they set up front groups to
go ahead and get them staffed. They import the imams who do a lot of the
preaching and they bring in the traveling imams.

So this is an operation where they are setting it up to be able to preach jihad
and radicalize people under the cover of religious freedom here in the United
States. It's a cunning plan.

WALLACE: Aaron, I want to pick up on a question that I think has confused a lot
of people and I think it's one of reasons that it took us a couple of days to
come to the conclusion it's terror and not work place violence. Usually in a
terror attack, and correct me if I am wrong, you want to strike in the most
public way in the kind of place that would most terrorize the largest number of
people.

So under those circumstances why strike at a county Department of Public Health
Christmas party where it would raise the possibility it was work place violence
and not terror at all?

COHEN: Well, my answer, Chris is why not? Soft targets are soft for a reason.
You go after what you can get. Al Qaeda is never going to be able to outdo
itself and kill more than the thousands of people that they killed using a plane
as a tactical instrument to be able to crash into a building.

ISIS knows this. So ISIS can tap into this resource again of dormant potentially
radicalized or people that can be radicalized from these sleeper, dormant cells
in these fronts like Mr. Hanson just pointed out and they can attack anywhere
they want. And that's the problem.

And I think the reason, Chris, why the FBI was very cautious in coming out but
they realized they had to say this was terrorism because the implications of the
larger macro-threat that we are facing if we don't look at it from terrorism or
if they don't look at it from terrorism then work backwards Chris, means that we
could potentially be looking at a lot more terrorism.

And so the FBI got smart. And they went hey, let's start framing this thing the
opposite way. A little more the way Israel does it and then start working
backwards from here. There are too many coincidences to not call this what it
could be. I think that was a big move for the FBI.

WALLACE: So are you suggesting and we're running out of time here that this was
political correctness or political pressure that they didn't want to call it
terrorism because that has implications and also talks to the success or failure
of the Obama administration?

COHEN: Absolutely. I think political correctness is the major security layer
that does not exist right now in this country. In Israel we don't have that
luxury. For every minute we waste, an innocent person is going to get killed.
And I think that the political correctness is crushing our ability, Chris, to be
able to realistically insulate this population the way it needs to be so that
these type of dormant attackers who can become radicalized will strike again.

They realized it and they got on camera and they decided that they had to make a
move and get on record with this. So that because they knew that this was a much
larger macroproblem here and, again, the political correctness is definitely the
problem.

WALLACE: Let me just bring in Jim Hanson for a final question. What do you make
of the fact that Farook and his wife apparently smashed their cell phones,
destroyed some of their digital equipment appeared to be trying to cover their
tracks? That isn't always the way terrorists act?

Yes, it's interesting what they might have been trying to cover up, potentially
the fact that the FBI mentioned they were in contact with other folks. So there
may be an act of conspiracy. There may be other folks still involved whether
they were set to do attacks as well.

I think they found out as Hillary Clinton may that you can't destroy all your
digital records. So I hope the FBI is doing an amazing forensic sweep.

WALLACE: Jim, Aaron -- thank you both.

Next on THE O'REILLY FACTOR special with ISIS influence terrorism apparently
here is it time for President Obama to do a 180 on his strategy to defeat the
terror group? Two top experts will give us their analysis moments away.

WALLACE: In the "Impact Segment" tonight, President Obama's strategy to fight
ISIS. Wednesday's San Bernardino attack delivered yet another blow to his
approach. But the shooting apparently isn't changing the minds of top Obama
administration officials.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ASHTON CARTER, U.S. SECRETARY OF DEFENSE: Right here in the United States where
we have had people, some of them just losers with a keyboard who get excited by
ISIL propaganda and decide to take off against our fellow citizens. So this is
the first ever social media enemy. So it's a -- it's new. Not something we can
defeat but we have to be ingenious.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WALLACE: Joining us now Ambassador James Woolsey, former director of the CIA;
and in New York the "Wall Street Journal's" Bret Stephens.

Bret, let me start with you. You say one of our big problems is that we call
ISIS the Islamic state when we should be calling it the Islamic caliphate. What
difference does that make?

BRET STEPHENS, "WALL STREET JOURNAL": It's fundamental and it's one of these
cases in which the words we use captures or limits our ability to think through
a problem a state is a political entity that has some kind of a border. You can
debate where that border is but it has borders especially when we speak of ISIS,
Islamic state in Iraq and Syria, we are thinking of a state in a particular
regional -- in a particular region.

A caliphate makes claims, makes moral claims on Muslims throughout the world.
Now obviously only a small minority of Muslims think that this self-declared
caliphate has a claim on them. But it means its geographical expanse is
basically universal. It's basically worldwide.

That's one of the reasons we are seeing essentially self-actualized ISIS groups
popping up not only in Europe, North Africa, Nigeria, Afghanistan, Pakistan and,
of course, now most infamously in San Bernardino, California.

WALLACE: All right. Let me bring in Mr. Woolsey here because if Bret is right
and we should properly think of ISIS now and after Paris and a number of these
other attacks it certainly seems to be right as a global threat and not a
regional threat. How does that affect the way we fight them?

JAMES WOOLSEY, FORMER CIA DIRECTOR: Well, we have to fight them everywhere and
we have to I think take them out in their homeland, that's crucial -- the
homeland of the caliphate in Syria and Iraq. And they also have to be fought
here and in Paris and wherever they show up. We can't just kind of rock back and
leave them alone.

I think the caliphate in Muhammad time expanded very, very rapidly and within
100 years of his death it reached from France to today's Pakistan. And that's
what they want. They think they should rule everything that was once ruled by
Muslims and right away.

WALLACE: Well, Mr. Woolsey let's talk some specifics. The Pentagon announced
this week that they are going to add 200 Special Ops Forces, Special Operators
in Iraq to launch raids both in Iraq and in Syria; as opposed to zero, I suppose
that's a good number. But is it anywhere close to what you think we need?

WOOLSEY: The Special Forces people are amazing but they are not so amazing that
200 can outbalance, can take over a whole country effectively.

We have got a fight here. Petrovsky once said you may not be interested in war
but war may be interested in you. And that's the situation we are in. Our
leader, at least -- our president is not interested in war but war is very much
interested in all of us. And we have got to deal with that.

WALLACE: Well, so, the question, of course, is how we deal with that Bret. Do we
put thousands of U.S. ground troops back on the ground in Iraq and possibly in
Syria?

STEPHEN: Well, I think you put at least several thousand. We have 3,500 troops
right now in Iraq although they are mostly on a training mission. I think you
probably need something in the order of 10,000. But that's a tactical question.
The important point is that you need to deal a decisive psychological blow to
ISIS.

You know, in 2001, bin Laden said there are strong horses and there are weak
horses and people are naturally attracted to the strong horse. And right now
ISIS's great advantage is that to many jihadi-minded Muslims around the world it
looks like the strong horse. And insofar as the United States is fighting this
kind of battle of containment, this battle at the edges and not winning the war
it is only feeding that imagination, feeding that perception of ISIS being a
group that has staying power.

So I think a strategy against ISIS has to begin with the United States
destroying its capital in Raqqa. Taking back Mosul, taking back Ramadi, taking
back Fallujah. Does that mean a long-term occupation? No, not necessarily. But
you don't -- you are not going to achieve this if you are going to try to fight
a war on an installment plan.

WALLACE: Ok. Let me bring in Mr. Woolsey for one final question.

While the threat is growing quite remarkably the NSA's bulk collection of data
ran out -- you're shaking your head as I say that -- ran out last Sunday. We no
longer have that capability. And I know you have said that you believe that
Edward Snowden the person who released this information has blood on his hands.
How seriously does this hurt us particularly when you are talking about
homegrown threats with the possibility that a fellow like Syed Farook is in
touch with people.

WOOLSEY: If you work in a company like (inaudible) and it has huge amount of
data for clients. They can tell you what medium you ought to be using to bring a
purchase to a client's attention, when it ought to happen. What will let you buy
something when you are in a store and encourage you to exactly at the right
time. The U.S. government doesn't have anything like that. The commercial world
is far ahead of what Snowden -- where Snowden has left us with respect to being
able to manipulate data and understand how we might zero in on these terrorist
groups.

WALLACE: Mr. Woolsey, Bret -- thank you both very much for joining us tonight.

Coming up is the homegrown terror threat now a bigger danger than ever following
the San Bernardino massacre?

New Jersey Governor and presidential candidate Chris Christie enters the No Spin
Zone with his plan to stop it. That's next.

WALLACE: In the "Campaign 2016 Segment" tonight, stopping the homegrown terror
threat. The issue took center stage in the Presidential race this week following
the San Bernardino attack. But do any of the candidates have real solutions to
better protect the country?

Joining us now from Jefferson, Iowa presidential candidate and New Jersey
Governor Chris Christie.

Governor, during a speech at the Republican Jewish Coalition this week, you said
that we are in the midst, your words, of the next world war. But talk to us in
practical terms specifically, what does that mean we should be doing
differently?

GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE (R-NJ), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Well, first off, Chris, what
we need to do is reverse the decision that was made this past summer regarding
the NSA's ability to collect metadata. We have weakened our intelligence
capability through that and we need to reverse that.

And we need to support our intelligence community and our law enforcement
community to intervene and to give them the tools they need to be able to do
that. And that's not just actual tools. It's also giving them the support and
guidance that they need to be able to do that the right way.

Then we need to go and put together as I have said before, a coalition of both
NATO allies and of Arab allies to be able to fight ISIS. We need to disrupt
their financial networks, their oil flow. Those are all things that are
practical things that we did with al Qaeda in the immediate aftermath of 2001
attack and we need to get back to that.

WALLACE: I want to talk to you more specifically about the homeland. One of the
things that you have been talking about is keeping all, all Syrian refugees out
of the country. But as we saw in San Bernardino, the threat from homegrown
terrorists is a more immediate threat than any foreign people coming into the
country which raises the question, if you were president, commander-in-chief
today, what would you do to detect, to find out and to stop someone like Syed
Farook who was an American citizen?

CHRISTE: Well, first thing, Chris, is that, you know, no one else in this race
has the experience that I do in terms of having spent seven years in the
immediate aftermath of 9/11 using the Patriot Act, using the FISA court, using
the tools that are necessary to be able to intervene in both the Fort Dick 6
case and the Hemant Lakhani where we successfully intervened before attacks
happened. We were able to prosecute, convict, then send to jail all of those
terrorists.

And we would use those very same tools. We would make sure that we have a
bolstered and strong Patriot Act. We'd make sure that we are giving the
resources that the FBI, other law enforcement, CIA and NSA need to be able to
intervene.

The only way to deal with this problem at home, Chris, is to get as much
intelligence as possible, connect the dots and try to intervene beforehand. I
want to be clear. It doesn't mean you're going to be able to stop every attack.

And I want to take issue with one thing you said in your question. I don't think
that the attacks in San Bernardino mean that the threat from within is worse
than the threat from outside. They're both bad and they both need to be dealt
and intelligence and law enforcement capability is the number one way to protect
the homeland.

WALLACE: There is a new poll that is out, that was completed just before the San
Bernardino attacks. And I want to put this up on the screen and discuss it with
you.

In the CNN national survey Donald Trump now leads at 36 percent -- that's more
than double anyone else in the field. You are running fifth at 4 percent and
specifically on the issue of fighting terrorists -- on fighting ISIS rather --
Trump is at 46 percent. You are running sixth at 4 percent.

My question is: what do you make of his strength and of your standing when the
issue specifically is when it comes to protecting the country?

CHRISTIE: You know, Chris, we have talked about this in all the time I have been
on "FOX NEWS SUNDAY". These national polls are just meaningless. What really
matters is what is happening in Iowa and New Hampshire. That's what is going to
define this race ultimately. We have got the Iowa caucuses in less than 60 days.
We have got the New Hampshire primary in less than 70 days. Those are the polls
that really matter. Those are the races that really matter.

And as have you known and seen over the course of your career, if the results in
Iowa or New Hampshire are in any way inconsistent with what those national polls
are today those national poll will change overnight.

WALLACE: President Obama has said that one of his foreign policy principles is
"don't do stupid stuff". In an interview that was published today in the
"Atlantic" you say that in pursuit of that policy, that President Obama, quote,
"has done a lot of stupid stuff", although you used a rougher word than that.
When you say stupid stuff by this president such as?

CHRISTIE: As did the President, by the way. You know, the saying inside there in
the White House according to all the reports is that they used the rougher
language, too, Chris. So I was repeating the President's rough language.

The fact is this. When you promise to take action in Syria, if they violate a
red line, of not using chemical weapons against their people and then you don't
act you diminish America's influence and credibility abroad. When you sign a
ridiculous agreement with the Iranians regarding nuclear weapons that the
Iranians are not even following at this point, that is something that's not
smart to do. When you put distance between ourselves and Israel as the President
has done both through his actions and his rhetoric, that makes the region more
unstable. And when you put distance between ourselves and our Sunni Arab allies
because of your flirtation with Iran who's still chanting death to America and
guaranteeing that Israel will be wiped off the map in 25 years that seems pretty
stupid to me, too.

WALLACE: Governor Christie, we're going to have to leave it there. Thank you so
much. Thanks for your time tonight.

CHRISTIE: Chris, thank you for the opportunity. It's good to see you. Have a
nice weekend.

WALLACE: Thank you. Same to you.

Up next with those new polls showing Donald Trump surging ahead, will his tough
talk on terror strengthen his grip on the Republican nomination? Stay tuned.

PATRICIA STARK, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: This is a FOX News alert. I'm Patricia Stark.
The woman who helped her husband carry out Wednesday's massacre in San
Bernardino, California posted her allegiance to ISIS on Facebook. Now, that's
according to the Feds who also said today Tashfeen Malik and her husband Syed
Farook tried to cover their tracks. All the evidence piling up led to this from
the FBI.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DAVID BOWDICH, FBI LOS ANGELES ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: Based on the information and
the facts as we know them, we are now investigating these horrific acts as an
act of terrorism.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

STARK: That means Wednesday's attack in which 14 people were killed would be the
deadliest terror attack on American soil since 9/11. The FBI, however, not
discussing whether anyone affiliated with the Islamic State communicated
directly with the killers who were gunned down by authorities. I'm Patricia
Stark and now back to THE O'REILLY FACTOR.

CHRIS WALLACE, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: In THE FACTOR "Follow-Up" segment tonight,
terrorism in the 2016 campaign. As we said, a new CNN poll completed just before
the San Bernardino shooting had some good news for Donald Trump. Trump now has
the support of 36 percent of Republican voters. That's 20 points ahead of
Senator Ted Cruz, who is second at 16 percent. Dr. Ben Carson 14 percent.
Followed by Senator Marco Rubio at 12. The remaining candidates in single
digits. Tough talk on terrorism like this from Trump is apparently appealing to
GOP voters.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BILL O'REILLY, HOST, "THE O'REILLY FACTOR": You have got to define, take out
their families, what does that mean?

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Bill, Bill. Do you think the wives and
the families knew exactly what was going to happen with September 11th?

O'REILLY: I don't know.

TRUMP: I do and I know they did. Well, I do, I think they did.

O'REILLY: So, when you say take out though. What does take out mean?

TRUMP: You have to do what Israel was doing for a period of time. Take out means
that you have to wipe out their homes where they came from. You have to
absolutely wipe them out. It's the only way you are going to stop terrorism.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WALLACE: Joining us now with reaction from New York, Real Clear Politics
reporter Caitlin Huey-Burns along with Philip Bump from "The Washington Post"
who is covering the Trump campaign. Caitlin, let me start with you and those
poll numbers, 36 percent of the national poll, 46 percent specifically comes to
fighting ISIS. Do you think that is a reaction? Trump's rise to the increased
focus on terror?

CAITLIN HUEY-BURNS, REAL CLEAR POLITICS NATIONAL REPORTER: I do think so. And it
actually runs counter to what many of us thought would happen in this campaign
after the terrorist attacks put a more of a focus on national security and
foreign policy issues. Many thought that candidates like Marco Rubio or Ted Cruz
or others, Chris Christie who have made this a focal point of their campaign
would be able to rise. And we haven't seen that be the case. We have seen a
decrease, however, in Ben Carson's numbers. But Donald Trump has been talking
this way very aggressively. And I think his supporters are responding to that.

WALLACE: Let me pick up on that, Philip, because a lot of the so- called experts
thought, you know, if this became a focus on the commander- and-chief primary if
you will, who is the best person to protect the country? People would be
looking. Voters would be looking for someone with foreign policy experience. It
seems that what they are responding to is Trump's tough talk.

PHILIP BUMP, POLITICS REPORTER, "WASHINGTON POST": Yes, I think that's right. I
think that's right. I mean, Trump has been very aggressive since he started his
campaign on immigration, on terrorism, and I think that that resonates. So, you
know, he hasn't been terribly specific in what he is going to do about it. But,
you know, just talking tough, I think it's helpful. I will say though that I
think part of the issue with these recent polls is that decline from Ben Carson.
I think the fact that Ben Carson dropped off a lot. I think we could have seen
that coming because he wasn't viewed as being very strong on foreign policy.
Yes. I think that helped Cruz. I think it helped Trump. And the Trump numbers on
terrorism, not as good for examples as his numbers on the economy. So, I think
it's not as strong a poll for Trump as you might suspect.

WALLACE: So you think, in effect, Philip, that he is winning -- in other words,
he is picking out the outside or none of the above vote that some of the Carson
people have.

BUMP: Yes, I think that's right. I think that Carson drop-off has been mutually
beneficial for both Trump and Cruz.

WALLACE: You know, as Philip says, well, maybe this is going to begin to fade,
Caitlin, you know, I have to think that a lot of us have kept saying well, back
in June or July or August, you know, it's a summer fling and the Trump support
will fade. We're now less than two months, considerably less than two months
away from the actual voting starting at the Iowa caucuses. It's not fading.
Trump's lead is growing.

HUEY-BURNS: It's certainly not. He actually just hit his highest point in
polling ever in our Real Clear Politics polling average. And we do still have
two months to go. There are still voters undecided. But the time is really
running out, quite frankly. And the fact is that the other -- none of these
other candidates show any signs of backing out. So there isn't really going to
be a consolidation around a Trump alternative. Any time soon. So I project this
to continue on at least through Iowa and New Hampshire and we will see, you
know, how the other candidates address this by either staying in the race or
dropping out or, you know, whether the party gets more involved here. We're not
sure.

WALLACE: Philip, are you prepared to say at this point that Donald Trump can win
the Republican nomination?

HUEY-BURNS: Oh, yes. He absolutely can win it. I'm not prepared to say, at least
he is going to win it. You know, I think the points just made were very strong
points. I will just add that as -- 538, very strong point. Two thirds of the
people made up their minds in Iowa did so a month before Election Day. Three
quarters almost in New Hampshire in 2012. So, that's a lot of last-minute
decision making. Trump is anomaly, who knows what happens. But certainly it
indicates that there's still a lot of people here that's going to make up their
minds closer to election.

WALLACE: I would just point out one last thing. And that is the fact that when
you ask various people who, you know, who support various candidates, how strong
is their support? Trump supporters are the most committed.

Caitlin, Philip, thanks both of you.

Calls are growing for an overhaul that U.S. visa and refugee programs that could
allow potential terrorists into the country. But will Democrats try to put a
stop to it? That debate when this O'REILLY FACTOR Special returns.

WALLACE: Thanks for watching this Special Edition of THE O'REILLY FACTOR. "The
War on Terror." I'm Chris Wallace in for Bill O'Reilly. And in the "Unresolved
Problem" segment tonight, how to stop terrorists from entering the U.S.? The San
Bernardino attack is sparking calls for tougher visa and refugee restrictions
after it was discovered the female shooter was allowed into this country on
what's called a fiance visa in 2014. A major standoff between President Obama
and Congressional Republicans is now brewing over that issue.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

LAURA INGRAHAM, RADIO HOST, LAURA INGRAHAM SHOW: Tell me if I'm misstating it.
He is such a fanatic, Senator, that he is willing to shut the government down to
keep the flow of the Muslim refugees coming. Fanatical. That's a fanatical deal.

SEN. JEFF SESSIONS (R), ALABAMA: And the Republicans wants that explained to the
American people. I think they'll overwhelmingly blame the President correctly
for refusing to deal with this crisis.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WALLACE: Joining us now from New York immigration Attorney Michael Wildes along
with Mike Gallagher, a FOX News contributor and radio talk show host. So, Mr.
Wilds the wife in this case Tashfeen Malik came into the U.S. on what's called a
K-1 visa, foreign fiancee of an American citizen who intends to get married
within 90 days. How much screening is involved in that?

MICHAEL WILDES, MANAGING PARTNER, WILDES AND WEINBERG PC: Tremendous amount of
screening. Thank you, Chris, for having me on. There are biometrics. There are
all sorts of bona fides of the legitimacy of the marriage since the 1980s and
`90s when there were Russian mail order brides. The State Department correct
that. It takes you effectively about nine months, you need to get police
clearances from every country ever lived in for more than six months. And that's
where we have a blind spot. Somebody who visits Syria or Saudi Arabia for a few
weeks or months and becomes radicalize might slip through the cracks. But nobody
is getting a K-1 visa with the prayer of getting in after being vetted by State
Department consular officials. Almost a year later, if only there are easier
ways to sneak into this country with our porous borders.

WALLACE: Let me bring in Mike Gallagher at this point. Mike, that is a lot more
screening than a lot of people coming into this country get -- we will get into
that in a moment. Would you end the K-1 visa?

MIKE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Listen, Chris, I'm not sure the American
people are interested in the nuances of the K-1 visa program. You know the
government says that strict and vigorous screening procedures are in place for
immigrants, for refugees. This is precisely why there has been such push back
over the Syrian refugee issue. Americans are compassionate but that doesn't mean
we are stupid. And that doesn't mean that you are going to leave the door wide
open or not ask about the identity of somebody who is coming on the door.

And at the end of the day the only solution to this is a political solution.
It's why Donald Trump is fairing so well because of his tough talk on
immigration. He has done it from day one. And that's why you know, he was
enjoying such success. The American people are fed up. We have a president last
night who was saying, listen, we are looking at this still as a possibility of
work place violence. You have got to be kidding me. This has to change. And
there is going to be a see change.

WALLACE: There is a much bigger hole in the system. Much bigger than the
refugees, much bigger than K-1 and that's the visa waiver in which people from a
bunch of countries, dozens of countries especially in Europe can come into this
country without any screening at all. Isn't that a much bigger problem?

WILDES: Up to 90 days, they can come in on a visa waiver. Look, our founding
fathers were facing sedition and pirates on the high seas. We seem to react now
to shoe bombers and underwear bombers and now the radicalization on the women's
side of the ledger. We cannot be facing, responding to terrorism. America like
the state of Israel really has to be out there first and ferreted out this
cancer and stop it. But the visa waiver, I'm sorry, Mike -- the visa waiver
program, we have curtailed business. We have U.S. marines -- anybody getting K-1
visas.

WALLACE: I get the point and let me ask Gallagher about that because, you know,
there are millions of tourists who come from those countries under the visa
waiver. You're going to just shut the door.

GALLAGHER: You can't shut the door but there is nothing wrong with greater
scrutiny. That's why Senator Cruz is asking for full disclosure about the path
that this woman took to come into the United States. All Republican candidates
are asking for is scrutiny. Deeper scrutiny and a more sophisticated way to say,
we are not going to have open borders. Let's face it. There are a lot of Liberal
Democrats who are in favor of open borders. So, how you can expect more scrutiny
on somebody who comes in on a K-1 visa. We have got to have a mindset. See
change. And has to happen politically. That's the only way we are going to solve
this thing.

WALLACE: And Mr. Wildes, very quickly. About 30 seconds. You know, one of the
problems people say is, garbage in, garbage out. You can have all of those
screening in the world, the problem particularly about Syrian refugees. But as
you pointed out yourself, if there is no database of those no reliable
information. Screening isn't going to work.

WILDES: You are right, Chris. And the sad thing is that there isn't the
seamlessness, whether it's our intelligence services military or otherwise, we
need to be that proactive on this issue. Immigration is the fuel of our economy.
The family reunification and the very reason our founding fathers came here. We
can't allow these terrorists to stop us from doing this.

WALLACE: Gentlemen, we are going to have to leave it there Mike, Mr. Wildes,
thank you both very much.

And a quick reminder, as you may know, Bill O'Reilly gives a lot of money to
charity and as he always says at the end of the show it's because of you the
viewer. So, please go to Bill O'Reilly.com. Buy gifts for Christmas and
Hanukkah. We hope everyone does that this weekend. Including Bill's big
bestseller "Killing Reagan."

When we come back, the media is invited into the home of the San Bernardino
killers by their landlord. What was discovered inside? Stay tuned.

WALLACE: In the "Personal Story" segment tonight, going inside the home of the
San Bernardino killers. In one of the most bizarre developments yet, the home's
landlord gave a surprise invitation to the media today to come in and check it
out. Everything from the Islamic books of prayer to toys for the couple's
six-month-old daughter. Identification cards and family photos were still
inside.

Joining us now with more from San Bernardino, FOX News correspondent Adam
Housley. Adam, all of us saw in the video today, of reporters crawling all over
each other with their cameras, taking pictures of this crime scene. I know the
FBI says that they have completed their investigation of the house that that
couple were renting, but no evidence from the crime scene that was still needed
by the investigators?

ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: No. They say no evidence at all. In fact I
got that from not only the local folks here, they have been doing this
investigation. But also the national people. They say as crazy as it looks, and
obviously they can't determine how the media covers it, but they say, listen, we
went through this place with everything inch by inch. We got a lot of
information out of there. We needed nothing else in there. And this is normal
for us to hand it back over to the homeowner when we're completely done with it.

WALLACE: The evidence was clearly leading in that direction. And you're
reporting the last day or so, certainly was leading in that direction. I have to
say though, I thought it was pretty dramatic today when the lead FBI person on
the investigation out there in San Bernardino said, they are now the FBI is
investigating this as an act of terrorism.

HOUSLEY: Yes. You know, I could tell you from early on, Chris, they thought it
was an act of terrorism. They've been saying that to us here on the ground. They
said they don't want to worry about the terminology coming from Washington. They
don't want to worry about the investigation. But they've been wanting to call it
that. We got tipped off yesterday at about 7:00 p.m. that he would come out
today and say that. It was supposed to be a new local press conference and they
changed it to 11:00 a.m. because the national Director Comey was coming out to
speak on something else. And it ended up being on this as well. And so kind of
interesting how it happened, Chris. But I'll tell you that, I thought it was
dramatic as well. Even though we knew here on the ground, it's been going this
way from the beginning. It is very dramatic when you hear that. When you hear
the guy in charge say, this is terrorism.

WALLACE: Has the mood there changed at all since that announcement Adam in the
sense that you know, if it is workplace violence, it is terrible, but if
somebody else's problem. If it is a terrorist cell, even if it's those two
people, there is always a question, is there somebody else out there and is
there going to be another attack? How do people in the neighborhood feel?

HOUSLEY: I don't think people here have changed the feeling. I mean, they've
been tense. I mean, obviously once the two were killed in that shootout we
covered a couple of days ago, once that happened, the energy did relax a little
bit. But people here knew what this was. I think a lot of people in the country
knew what this was. We also, I also can tell you, there's been a debate in
Washington behind the scenes about what to call this. There was pressure at one
point, Chris, to call this workplace violence that caused terrorism, believe it
or not. That that was actually part of a debate behind the scenes. So people
here on the ground knew what it was. I mean, when you're here, you feel it, you
know it, and you hear the reporting from here on the ground and also the
investigators are all over this place. As you might imagine, there is a massive
presence of investigation work going on, not only here in Redlands but also San
Bernardino and really across the region -- Chris.

WALLACE: And our final 30 seconds, Adam, I assume that this weekend now that we
have a better sense of what caused this, that some of the focus will return to
burying the dead. Those 14 people who lost their lives.

HOUSLEY: Yes, you know, here are some amazing stories. You know, one woman that
actually kind of knows my brother in an indirect way, she was the only one that
survived at her table that was at that event. I mean, you are hearing those
types of things, along with the families that are having to remember their loved
ones as they put them, lay them to rest. Knowing that this is now a terrorist
attack officially. Obviously this community has come together like a lot of
communities do but they also know that they are in the middle of arguably what
is the most important event. As one of the FBI agents said to me, Adam, this is
a game-changer.

WALLACE: Adam, thank you. Thank you for your reporting and for your insight.

Straight ahead, a powerful look at the lives of some of those 14 people who lost
their lives in the San Bernardino shooting. And we'll be right back with that.

WALLACE: In the "Back of the Book" segment tonight, remembering the victims of
the San Bernardino shooting. Tonight we take a look at some powerful images from
news coverage around the nation of those 14 innocent lives taken in just a
matter of moments on Wednesday.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Probably the worst day of my life. Not knowing how to tell
your kids that daddy's not coming home.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They range in age from 26 to 60. Fathers, mothers, the
cousin of a New York Giants player, and police officers wife who fled Islamic
extremism in Iran.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What's the best thing about your wife you will going to
remember?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Everything. She was an angel.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Twenty seven-year-old Yvette Velasco's uncle said his niece
was one of four sisters.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They are very close family. Very tight knit family.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Shannon Johnson, Aurora Godoy, Sierra Clayborn.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: One of Sierra's Clayborn's photos is covered in blue, white
and red, a tribute to the victims of last month's Paris massacre. A message
beneath the photo reads, even as you go, your picture is out of love for victims
elsewhere.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Jennifer Thalasinos says her husband Nicholas, worked with
Syed.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I feel he was martyred. And I just know he is in a better
place.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: He had this grin that made it look like he was up to
something.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: When things were starting to get to you, Daniel would show up
and it was like --

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: He would pull some stunt and make you laugh.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The world will suffer from having one less person like him.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WALLACE: A total of eight men and six women died in the attack. Our thoughts and
prayers are with their families. And that's it for us tonight. Thanks for
watching this special edition of THE O'REILLY FACTOR. Also, be sure to catch
"fox News Sunday" this weekend on FOX broadcast in the morning and replays on
FOX News Channel.

I'm Chris Wallace in for Bill O'Reilly. And please remember, the spin stops
here. Because as always, we're looking out for you.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120401cb.256

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               46 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            December 4, 2015 Friday

                        SHOW: THE KELLY FILE 9:00 PM EST

FBI: Shooting An Act of Terrorism; New Details On Terrorist Couple; Report:
Terrorist Was in Contact with Five Individuals Under FBI Investigation

BYLINE: Megyn Kelly, James Rosen, Trace Gallagher

GUESTS: Charles Krauthammer, James Kallstrom, Brad Thor, Marco Rubio, Brad Thor,
Mark Eiglarsh, Arthur Aidala

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 7247  words


MEGYN KELLY, HOST, "THE KELLY FILE": Breaking tonight, tough new questions for
the commander-in-chief as the FBI confirms the worst domestic terror attack
since 9/11 on U.S. soil. And President Obama remains silent.

Welcome to THE KELLY FILE, everyone, I'm Megyn Kelly. And we have some major
developments in the Christmas party massacre that left 14 dead and 17 wounded a
little more than 48 hours ago. Tops among them, ABC News obtaining the first
pictures of Tashfeen Malik, the 27-year-old mother, who along with her husband,
murdered 14 innocent people in cold blood. The same woman, we have learned,
posted a pledge of allegiance to ISIS and its leader on a Facebook account
within moments of firing the very first shots in a conference room in
California. As her husband's co-workers lay bleeding and dying. The same
co-workers who threw her a baby shower six months earlier. And today, for the
first time, the Feds describe this attack as terror.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DAVID BOWDICH, FBI L.A., ASSISTANT DIRECTOR IN CHARGE: As of today, based on the
information and the facts as we know them, we are now investigating these
horrific acts as an act of terrorism.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Many in the country may now be waiting to hear from the
commander-in-chief. They will need to wait a little longer. As of 4:40 p.m.
Eastern Time, we received word that the White House had gone dark for the
evening. Meaning, don't expect to see or hear from the president of the United
States on this issue tonight.

In moments, Charles Krauthammer joins us on today's news. Plus, THE KELLY FILE
speaks with the director of the mosque where the killer husband previously
worshipped. Brad Thor is here to react to that and the dramatic news conference
today from the suspected killers lawyers. And Senator Marco Rubio weighs in on
how this woman managed to come to America.

But we start with James Rosen at the White House tonight. James?

JAMES ROSEN, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Megyn, good evening. The White House since
says there was no disconnect between the refusal of officials here to label the
San Bernardino case an act of terrorism and the eventual use of that term by the
FBI. Aides to President Obama said that up until now the White House wanted the
attorney general and the FBI director to have the lead role in the making of
public pronouncements on the San Bernardino attack. What officials here told me
tonight, President Obama will speak publicly on the case again and soon and will
address it squarely as an act of terrorism.

Critics of the administration oversee a pattern where in the President or his
aides have been slow to recognize terrorism or call it that. In 2009, Homeland
Security Secretary Janet Napolitano famously labeled terrorists acts man-caused
disasters. The Pentagon initially called the Fort Hood massacre an instance of
workplace violence. And just this past July, the President declined to
categorize mass casualty attacks at two military installations in Chattanooga,
again leaving it to the FBI to call it terrorism. More broadly, the President
has refused to use the words radical Islam, Islamist or Jihad in describing the
greater challenge from terrorism preferring instead the term violent extremism.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ROSEN: The criticism is that as Commander-in-Chief, President Obama will always
be handicapped in his ability to really effectively confront this threat
precisely because he isn't properly defining it in his rhetoric or therefore in
his own mind.

JOSH EARNEST, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: I guess James, the fact that our
harshest critics, that best criticism that they can come up with, is to
criticize what the President says, I think is a pretty strong endorsement of all
of the actions that the President has taken to keep the country safe.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

ROSEN: Bottom-line, the White House now does not dispute that the San Bernardino
attack ranks as the deadliest terrorist attack on U.S. soil since September
11th, 2001. And again I'm told President Obama will be addressing it again
publicly and soon -- Megyn.

KELLY: Joining me now, Charles Krauthammer. He's a syndicated columnist, FOX
News contributor and author of the book "Things That Matter."

Charles, thank you for being here tonight. Let's just start with the
significance of what we have now learned which is a terror attack has hit the
homeland. It has hit the homeland in the worst possible way, in a way that had
been imagined by our security experts. For the first time in the worst way since
9/11.

CHARLES KRAUTHAMMER, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: And happened just a couple of weeks
after we had been assured that a Paris style attack was extremely unlikely to
occur in the United States. Giving the people a sense that they were secure. I
think one of the reasons for the true widespread and deep anxiety in the
country, insecurity, reflected for example in the increase in the purchase of
firearms. Is that people feel that the authorities, particularly the President,
the White House, the ultimate authorities, simply are clueless about what's
happening. Either that they have no idea what to do about it and thus deny its
existence or its importance or its severity or that the President truly doesn't
believe that this is major threat to the security of his own people.

And when you feel leaderless, when you have the White House an hour before the
FBI says, it's terrorism, still refusing to call it terrorism, when you have the
President saying that ISIS is contained, ISIS is not gaining strength and his
own head of the Joint-chiefs-of-Staff says in testimony a few weeks ago, ISIS is
growing, it's not contained. When you have every single indication of the
highest authorities in the land downplaying the threat at every turn, starting
from the jayvee team until right now, then you have a sense that this is not an
administration to whom you can entrust your safety and the safety of your
children.

KELLY: Typically, we look to our president as commander-in-chief and at a time
like this, as comforter in chief. And I don't mean to say that this is the same
as 9/11, but this is a terrorist attack. The FBI tells us it's so. So where is
he and why isn't he coming on camera tonight to address the nation?

KRAUTHAMMER: Well, where is he, as I just learned from your staff a minute or
two ago and I just heard you say, he's meeting with former Congressman Gifford
to talk about gun control. What was his reaction to the news of the shooting and
all of the circumstances which has suggested to just about everybody in the
country? That this is the work of radical Islam. He came out with a statement
and this is the only time he shows passion on gun control which is a totally
irrelevant when it comes to international terrorism. The problem of ISIS is not
a gun control problem.

The French have the strongest gun control laws in the world and they even hit
three times now in this calendar year by acts of mass murder. So he preferred to
or he is interested in gun control far more than this issue and when you look at
it, you weigh the threat of one against the threat of the other, what's
happening in the Middle East, happening in Europe, and now has reached our
shores, it's nearly incomprehensible. But it is that sense of absence, I don't
need him to comfort me. I just need him to give the country a sense that he
knows what the threat is and that he is alerting himself, his administration, to
put out the maximum effort. But every time he speaks about this, every time, it
is either to downplay or distract to another issue.

KELLY: But you know, after the Paris attacks, which were very jarring even here
in America, he swung and he missed in an attempt to talk to the American people.
And he was criticized for it. Not just by his political opponents, but by
Democrats saying, hold on. You have a different role here. And that is that of
comforter in chief. Even though the Dr. Charles Krauthammers of the world may
not need it. And he got it a few days later, he came out and gave it another
try. And now here we are on the day the FBI is saying this was a terrorist
attack on the day we learned this woman pledged her allegiance to al-Baghdadi,
before she shot 14 of our fellow citizens. And he is missing it again. There
have been some suggestions he might say something about it in his radio address
this weekend, Charles. Not good enough!

KRAUTHAMMER: Well, on the controller in chief thing, remember, there's a reason
I left psychiatry. But on the main issue here, remember what he did at the press
conference in Turkey. Right after the Paris attack. I mean, the dead had barely
been buried and we all saw what he did. He spoke in very measured terms about
what happened in France. He called it a setback. The President of France called
it an act of war. And then he showed his only passion in that hour of the press
conference, in denouncing Republicans on what, on admitting Syrian refugees. As
if that was the issue. And not the rise of Islamic terrorism in the heart of the
west and obviously accelerating and strengthening in these seven years of his
administration. And now hitting American shores.

KELLY: Charles, is this the new reality of living in America?

KRAUTHAMMER: It's the new reality of living in America when we have spent seven
years, abdicating our role in the Middle East, withdrawing from Iraq
unilaterally and allowing the influence of Iran to rise with the growth of ISIS.
ISIS has become, under this president, the largest semi- sovereign terrorist
group in the history of the world. The wealthiest resources of income that are
untold in the history of terrorism. And with obvious skill and reach. And he
acts as if it remains a jayvee team and a minor nuisance.

KELLY: Charles, thank you.

KRAUTHAMMER: My pleasure.

KELLY: Well, it is not just the White House taking heat tonight. Senator Marco
Rubio is here to talk about Attorney General Loretta Lynch and what she is
calling her greatest priority right now.

Plus, we have new details on the terrorist couple and what really happened in
the run-up to this attack. Trace Gallagher is live in San Bernardino with the
breaking news on that right after this break.

Also, in the years before Farook became a cold-blooded killer, he attended this
mosque on a daily basis. And tonight, THE KELLY FILE speaks to the director of
the mosque about a warning he shared on Farook's wife.

Plus, Brad Thor is here on what we learned from inside the mosque.

When he decided to get married, probably he had started some contract over the
internet with a young woman in Saudi Arabia, she is from a Pakistani origin.

KELLY: Breaking tonight, we are learning new details about the killer couple
behind the worst terrorists attack on U.S. soil since September 11th. And what
they did before, during and after, killing 14 and wounding 21 innocent people in
San Bernardino. Including a new report that directly challenges this suggestion
this could have been some sort of workplace violence.

Trace Gallagher live in San Bernardino, California for us to night. Trace?

TRACE GALLAGHER, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Remember the eyewitness report, Megyn,
was that on the morning of the Christmas Party, Syed Farook walked into that
party, he got into an argument with one of his co-workers, and then he stormed
out, and came back with his wife and opened fire. Well, now there are reports
that the police are very skeptical. In fact, they doubt that that ever happened.
Meantime, the FBI has insisted that ISIS did not direct these attacks. But we
have known for months that ISIS have been directing its followers to attack
their homeland and now it turns out the wife is an ISIS follower.

Take a look at the first picture of her from ABC News. We now know that she went
on to Facebook and her pledged to Abu Bakr, the leader of ISIS. And as the
attacks were about to happen, she praised the group. She later tried to delete
the post but the federal government now has recovered that post. We do not know
how. The FBI says, there is also evidence that one or both of the killers made
telephone contact with some here in the United States that was under
investigation by the FBI for terrorism and also made contact with somebody
outside of the United States also being investigated for terrorism. The couple
tried to erase their digital footprint, smashing cell phones, smashing hard
drives. But the FBI has salvaged them. Listen now to FBI Director Comey.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JAMES COMEY, FBI DIRECTOR: We are going through a very large volume of
electronic evidence. This is electronic evidence that these killers tried to
destroy and tried to conceal from us. That we now have and are exploiting to
trying to understand them.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GALLAGHER: Meanwhile, they are still investigating those weapons, Megyn. There
were two handguns and two assault rifles, they were all but legally two years
ago. But Syed Farook only bought the handguns. Another man believed to have been
a former roommate, apparently purchased the rifles. The FBI says, they know who
that man is. He has not yet been arrested. But they want to find out exactly why
he bought them -- Megyn.

KELLY: Uh-hm. Trace, thank you.

Joining me now with more, James Kallstrom, former FBI assistant director
in-charge and former counterterrorism senior adviser to the governor of New York
State.

Jim, good to see you tonight. And so, the investigation will now focus on for
the moment the electronics, the phones, and the computers, which they tried to
destroyed. Which in and of itself is some suggestion of possible terrorism.

JAMES KALLSTROM, FORMER FBI ASSISTANT DIRECTOR IN CHARGE: Yes. Full- court press
on all of the electronics, all of the phones, all of the connections. I wish NSA
was back in the picture. Because we would have a spider web of connections prior
that we can act on right away. And that's the importance of that program,
really.

KELLY: Uh-hm. Which we got rid of.

KALLSTROM: Which we got rid of. Which was really stupid, really, let's face it.
Also interviews, I mean, they are doing neighborhoods, they're doing every
place, all of the people that worked there.

KELLY: Let me ask you something about that. Because one of the things we learned
today is that Syed Farook's mother lived with these two.

KALLSTROM: Yes.

KELLY: She was helping take care of the six-month-old baby. And today we will
going to play this in a minute, these two lawyers suggested she didn't know
anything. She knew nothing. Even though she was there when they left in their
gear to go shoot up the place.

KALLSTROM: That's bogus.

KELLY: What do you think the FBI doing with her right now?

KALLSTROM: Well, interviewing her, right? Finding her.

KELLY: They've got her.

KALLSTROM: They've got her. Okay. Good.

KELLY: But she says, I know nothing.

KALLSTROM: Yes. Well, she will have intense interviews. And, you know, it will
be geometric in how that goes.

KELLY: They will get to the bottom of it.

KALLSTROM: We will get some information.

KELLY: How good are they with the electronics? We like to think they can do
anything. Can they?

KALLSTROM: They are very good. I mean, the FBI laboratory, the forensic guys are
really, really good. The question is, do you have enough of these people, you
know, to deal with this immense geometric puzzle that rapidly grows, you know.
But yes, they will do a great job and they will bring other people in, and other
agencies will help, no question about it.

KELLY: What did you make of the messaging we heard today from Director Comey who
did call it terrorism? Loretta Lynch, his boss, the Attorney General who didn't
use that word?

KALLSTROM: Jim Comey is a good man. And his final analysis, you know, we will
going to get the truth out of Jim Comey.

KELLY: Uh-hm.

KALLSTROM: You know, he is walking a little bit of a tight rope, although he has
a ten-year term, which is a powerful thing. But he is a good, good man. So, I
think even the FBI is doing a good job. You can see how the gymnastic semantics
are kind of frustrating to hear this thing. But I think in the final analysis,
you know, we will know exactly what happened, no question about it.

KELLY: We saw that extraordinary press conference last night where the cops
said, we've taken a beating lately and it's been hard.

KALLSTROM: Yes.

KELLY: You know, as a guy who devoted his life to law enforcement --

KALLSTROM: You know, of all the times to have demoralized cops that are going to
be like hands off, don't want to be called this, don't want to be called that,
that's the worst time. Look what's happened. Look what they've done to the
morale and the ability of police. And I'm not standing up for bad cops or bad
FBI guy. I mean, there's a few. But that 99.9 percent of guys are patriots. They
want to help you. They want to support you. They want to make sure you don't get
shot. Just like that cop told those group leaving. But now is not the time to
have guys not get out of their patrol cars. Not, you know, not report something.
Just like that neighbor that said she didn't call it in because she didn't want
to be called a bigot or, you know, that is a very harmful thing. We need the
opposite of that now.

KELLY: Uh-hm.

KALLSTROM: We need people calling in. We need good Muslims, they claim to be,
you know, not part of this, and don't support this terrorism, they need to be
telling us.

KELLY: Uh-hm.

KALLSTROM: Look, this guy is changing. I've seen different things. If they want
to be part of America and they want to, you know, live in our culture and
assimilate, they have to help us with this problem.

KELLY: You heard Jim Comey saying exactly that today, saying, if you see
something, say something. What we've really mean it. If you get that feeling
where the hair stands up on the back of your neck, call. Jim, thank you.

KALLSTROM: Thank you.

KELLY: Well, there was a remarkable 40-minute news conference this afternoon.
When the family of Syed Farook sent attorneys out to argue that he has no real
ties to terror and that was just the start.

Plus, THE KELLY FILE tonight goes inside Farook's mosque to speak with the man
who says he knew Farook better than anyone else. Brad Thor is here on what the
mosque director told us about the wife involved here. That's next.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DR. MUSTAFA KUKO, DIRECTOR OF THE ISLAMIC CENTER OF RIVERSIDE (on the phone): He
was born in America and she was born overseas and she lived overseas. So that
was one of his concerns that he talked to me about.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Breaking tonight. In the years before Syed Farook and his wife committed
mass murder, Farook was heavily involved in a mosque in Riverside, California.
And perhaps no one there knew him better than the center's director. Earlier he
spoke to us about the man he knew before Syed Farook married Tashfeen Malik and
the pair turned into killers.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

KELLY (voice-over): This is the mosque Syed Farook attended from 2012 to 2014.
He and its director were very close. Discussing everything from Islam to Syed's
love life.

KUKO: When he decided to get married, probably had started some contact over the
internet with a young woman in Saudi Arabia. She is from a Pakistani origin. He
was born in America and she was born overseas and she lived overseas so that was
one of his concerns that he talked to me about.

KELLY: Syed asked for Dr. Kuko's blessing. Kuko said he gave it but with a
caution.

KUKO: Check on her background. Check on her family background. Things like that.
Those are things we talked about, I remember.

KELLY: Kuko says, he only remembers one time Syed's wife Tashfeen Malik attended
the mosque. And shortly thereafter, Syed stopped attending.

KUKO: After he got married, he continued to coming to our mosque almost like I
would say three months or so and then after that he stopped coming because he
move out of Riverside to Redlands. And I understand that he started going to
some mosque over in that area.

KELLY: When he heard Syed was behind Wednesday's deadly attack, Kuko said he was
shocked.

KUKO: I was little disbelief because I know the guy. How can he do something
like this? It was awful.

KELLY: Kuko said the man he knew seemed incapable of committing mass murder.

KUKO: It's kind of hard for me to rectify someone who's so quiet and peaceful
and someone who has, you know, the audacity to commit such horrendous crime.

KELLY: He also said Syed never told him about any office conflict.

KUKO: He never told me about anything that related work problems.

KELLY: After his wife's reported pledge of allegiance to ISIS.

KUKO: I'm not sure about this report. And I haven't seen it and I have no way of
saying it's true or false.

(END VIDEOAPE)

KELLY: Joining me now, Brad Thor, former member of the Homeland Security
Department's Analytic Red Cell Unit and bestselling author of "Code of Conduct."
Brad, thanks for being here.

BRAD THOR, FORMER MEMBER, DHS ANALYTIC RED CELL UNIT: Thank you, Megyn.

KELLY: So now we have it coming together. He goes to the mosque. He leaves, he
goes to a different mosque. In the meantime, we find out that his wife is
pledging allegiance to ISIS before they walk into that conference room and the
latest reporting is, guess what, there was no argument between this guy and his
coworkers on the morning he shot them to death.

THOR: Right. We would have heard about that long ago. And I'll tell you, this is
the first time I'm hearing this interview with the director of his previous
mosque in Riverside. And one of the things that immediately pops into my head,
Megyn, is what if the wife radicalized him.

KELLY: Uh-hm.

THOR: What if this woman from Pakistan who grew up in Saudi Arabia and came over
here, what if she was the force behind making him a more pie assed Muslim and
forced him in this direction. Because I'm finding it hard to put together in my
head that he can get her trained up and passionate enough to commit to this kind
of attack. We may never know but boy, isn't that an interesting supposition
potentially.

KELLY: What is your understanding of what we are doing when it comes to mosques
in America right now.

THOR: Well, I'll tell you, I have to compare to what we are doing against the
French. The French are very, very -- I'll use the word liberal, but it's not
right way to do it. They will do wiretapping. They will do all sorts of stuff.
Microphones in mosques. They want to record all the sermons. I think about what
the NYPD did with their Commissioner Kelly with the demographics, that Bill de
Blasio didn't like as far you know, they have to have probable cause but they
wouldn't let things stop at threshold of a mosque. If they thought there was
planning going inside. And traditionally the mosque is more than just a house of
worship.

You can store things there. You can plan things there. It happens in the Middle
East. There are rules of engagement that allows us to go into the mosques in the
Middle East for a military. So, these, I don't think we are doing enough here.
You know, Listen, I'm a big guy about civil liberties. I know you respect them,
particularly as an attorney. But we have to find that right balance between
security and liberty in this country and if we get a lead that stuff is going on
in a mosque and hate is being preached or Jihad is being encouraged, I think
that all to be enough probable cause to go to a judge for a warrant to start
doing more aggressive surveillance on that mosque.

KELLY: It opens up a dicey, you know, area though legally.

THOR: I don't think the Catholics, the Amish, the Protestants, it is not like we
have a problem across the board religion wise.

KELLY: Well, it's interesting you raise that point. It's interesting you raise
that point because this is contrary to the point raised by the attorneys for the
family, which I'm going to play next. I'm holding you over. So stay right where
you are.

Coming up, Senator Marco Rubio, still ahead tonight, with a warning about what
we learned today. As well as lawyers coming up for Farook's family who called a
news conference this afternoon to argue that religion had nothing to do with
this crime.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DAVID CHESLEY, ATTORNEY FOR FAROOK FAMILY: The motive is very unclear. It could
be a disgruntled worker.

MOHAMMAD ABUERSHAID, ATTORNEY FOR FAROOK FAMILY: At this point, since the
investigation is ongoing, it could be a disgruntled employee. It could be an
information that's coming gal about their connections to different types of
groups. We're still waiting.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

PATRICIA STARK, FOX NEWS REPORTER: Live from America's news headquarters, I'm
Patricia Stark. A funeral today in Southern California for the only known
American victim in the Paris terror attacks last month. Friends, family, and
officials attended the funeral of 23-year-old Nohemi Gonzalez.

The California State University Long Beach student was described as a shining
light. The Islamic state group has claimed responsibility for the November 13th
gun and bomb attacks that left 130 dead and hundreds injured.

Well, rough weather in South Florida holding up a critical space launch for a
second day in a row. The Orbital ATK mission is to send 7400 pounds of supplies
to the International Space Station. Now NASA normally likes to have a six months
stash of food aboard at the space station, but it is down a couple of months of
the three failed flights.

I'm Patricia Stark. And now back to The Kelly File. For all your headlines log
on to foxnews.com

MEGYN KELLY, THE KELLY FILE SHOW HOST: Breaking tonight, attorneys for the
family of suspected terrorist Syed Farook gave a press conference just hours
ago. In a series of rambling and lengthy exchanges, attorney David Chesley and
Mohammad Abuershaid insisted their clients knew nothing of the terrorist radical
activity and ask the media to leave religion out of this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DAVID CHESLEY, SYED FAROOK'S FAMILY ATTORNEY: There hasn't been any clear
smoking gun evidence that they were part of any particular cell or group.
They're pointing to things that they saw on Facebook under different account
names in the case of Tashfeen Malik.

There was information about the fact that his co-workers kind -- has kind made
fun of him, for example, and his beard. He was a very isolated introverted
individual with really no friends.

So, I guess what we would say is that when an incident happens like this, when a
Christian goes to shoot up a Planned Parenthood or extreme Catholic bombs an
abortion clinic, all the headlines don't say, extremist radical Christian
Catholic.

I have so many Muslim friends and so many people that I work with that are
Muslim, and no one -- every Muslim community around the world has been in a
state of remorse and condemnation of these acts. No one supports it.

MOHAMMAD ABUERSHAID, SYED FAROOK'S FAMILY ATTORNEY: They thought Syed's hobbies
and which they still -- they still were was building cars. You know, this was
the thing, he like to go in his garage and he like to work on things. They never
used to invade his personal space. That was his man cave of sorts. He used to go
into the garage and work on things.

He used to build shoe racks for his sister instead of -- her making buy one.

(OFF-MIKE)

CHESLEY: I guess what I would say is that this is just so -- this is just the
stereotypical situation of what takes place. Every time there is an event like
this. Most of the time no one knows that much about the shooter. And the same
thing was here -- was the case here.

The mother stayed to herself. I think she stayed upstairs and so she would have
been separate and not really known much about what was taking place in the rest
of the house.

They are the FBI and they're damn good at getting this information. They asked
everything they could. They had the mother under pressure for what, seven hours
or so. They basically took her into custody and at one point they had the mother
in custody and they said, we're not letting your mother go.

They said this to Syrah, the sister of Syed, we're not going to let your mother
go until you, your brother and sister, Eva, come in for questioning. And I got
the feeling that that was a really traumatic experience because their son just
died.

The motive is that there is a - the motive is very unclear. It could be -- it
could be a disgruntled worker.

ABUERSHAID: At this point, since the investigation is still ongoing.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Mark Eiglarsh, he's a former prosecutor, now criminal defense attorney.
Arthur Aidala is a New York trial attorney and Fox News legal analyst, and Brad
Thor is back with us as well.

Mark, I mean, she was very upset because her son has just died after he killed
14 people and was shooting at cops. He died by a police officer's bullet. The
one that he was shooting at.

MARK EIGLARSH, CRIMINAL DEFENSE ATTORNEY: Right. Yes. Shame on them for
questioning her. Listen, they made some good points and they made some points I
took exception to. Let's get away -- let's out the good points. And that we
should all avoid bigotry discrimination and stereotyping.

Because not every Muslim supports murder and not everyone was involved in this.
That's important to note. However, I think they went to great lengths to try to
suggest erroneously, there's no evidence of any terror link whatsoever.

Two things I would say it that. Number one, your client's family members
destroyed a lot of that evidence. And number two, we saw there was a lot of
evidence left in the house for the media to rummage through, including but not
limited to, shredded documents which should be in the hands of FBI, shredding
those, so that we could find out what it is they didn't want us to know.

KELLY: Mark is making a reference to it, an incredible scene earlier today where
the landlord of the home let the media in and they had their hands all over what
evidence is says left in the house.

Arthur, these lawyers come out and say, first of all, every Muslim community in
the world has been in the state of remorse over this. Well, that's not true. The
radical Muslim communities are celebrating, right?

ARTHUR AIDALA, FOX NEWS LEGAL ANALYST: Right.

KELLY: So, I mean, that's number one. He loses some credibility. But he talks
about how the mother didn't know her own son? She stayed upstairs. And this tiny
-- she stayed upstairs, she never saw the pipe bombs. She didn't see when he
came home, put on the vest, pulled down the ski mask with his wife, left their
baby with the mother and ran out to commit mass murder. She didn't see any of
it?

AIDALA: Megyn, let's talk about a dose of reality here. Mark and I represent
criminal defendants all the time.

(CROSSTALK)

EIGLARSH: Minor and innocent.

AIDALA: And even though they're not vetting -- and even though they're not
representing a criminal defendant, the family here is being colored with the
horrible acts, that horrendous acts, that their family members did.

(CROSSTALK)

KELLY: Because they have been in and out of this house so many times.

AIDALA: OK. But here is the bottom line. The message they gave out, because I
agree with Mark said, they did make some good points and they didn't make some
not good points.

They came out, we brought our clients into the FBI. Four hours for the siblings.
Seven hours for the mom. And we're still available for them. We are cooperating
a hundred percent. That was point number one. Point number two is, they did
whatever they did.

But all Muslims should not be painted with the blood that's on the hands of
those two individuals. I think those were the two main points they wanted to
make.

BRAD THOR, SHADOWED A BLACK OPS TEAM IN AFGHANISTAN: Who's painting them?

KELLY: Go ahead.

THOR: Megyn, who is painting them? I have had enough of these apologetics from
the Muslim community. We get it. Not all Muslims are terrorists. But we're
wasting time passing that up.

I want to know who's paying these attorneys is it care? Because what we're
seeing here is a public relations Jihad. It is amazing.

You and I talked about how quick they got here up and got the press conference.
This is all an attempt to get us not to talk about Islam and Islam is key to
this.

KELLY: These lawyers today came out and said we need to protect the Muslim
community. In response to which, many Americans who are saying, you need to
protect the entire community.

THOR: Other way. Yes.

KELLY: The ones who were being shot to death when they go to the Christmas
party, Mark.

EIGLARSH: Yes. Megyn, I agree with there and I want to respond to the other
point. Who is paying the attorneys? Follow the money. Money comes typically
through banks. Oh, yes, media, holding bank records that were left behind.

(CROSSTALK)

AIDALA: Mark -- Mark...

EIGLARSH: They were left behind. I'm totaled by this. I can't believe it.

(CROSSTALK)

KELLY: You can't get over the fact that what is a crime scene was make -- was
opened up to the media today?

AIDALA: Yes. I agree with Mark on that.

EIGLARSH: Somebody make me OK with that.

THOR: It is a colossal mistake.

KELLY: Go ahead.

THOR: It's a colossal mistake.

AIDALA: Megyn, number one, I would not be surprised in the least if these two
young attorneys are doing this for free to be standing in front of national
audience for the whole night, number one.

Number two, the fact that the media was allowed in there. I scratch my head. I
heard today another analyst, the CIA or the DEA analyst saying this was planned
by federal investigators so that citizens like us right now watching this would
see clues and we would come forward to the FBI tonight and...

(CROSSTALK)

EIGLARSH: That what?

THOR: Megyn.

AIDALA: And, yes. That's what someone is trying to say with a straight face.

THOR: I agree. I spoke with a recently -- recently retired very high ranking FBI
member this afternoon from the criminal division out of the Washington
headquarters, who told me this was a colossal break down in his opinion.

He doesn't know exactly what happened.

EIGLARSH: Well, of course.

THOR: But he said, look at colossal breakdown in communication between San
Bernardino County sheriff and the FBI. There should have been somebody posted
outside that apartment. The fact that there wasn't, we need to find out what
happened there because even the...

(CROSSTALK)

KELLY: Last question. Last question. They found pipe bombs galore inside that
garage. That's where he was making all the stuff. And now they want us to
believe when the family members came over, they went into the garage and he just
working on cars and they had play dates in there with their 6-month-old baby. I
mean, you tell me, Mark, did this -- did this pass the smell test? Quickly.

EIGLARSH: Megyn, I'm not convicting the family. I want to see evidence that they
knew. They should absolutely continue to be investigated.

AIDALA: Yes, they pass in the smell test.

EIGLARSH: But what if they didn't? What if they didn't? It doesn't necessarily
pass the smell test.

(CROSSTALK)

KELLY: They're talking to all of them.

AIDALA: They -- let me, Megyn, you think they would leave bomb-making material
out evenly bomb-making material just outlaying around. Next to the car oil and
the...

(CROSSTALK)

KELLY: Who is to say he wouldn't? Who says he wouldn't? Got to go. Good to see
you all.

Just ahead, we spoke to the husband of a woman who was shot in that attack and
who saw her friend killed. He'll share her story.

Plus, it not just the White House taking heat on the response to terror. Senator
Marco Rubio is here to speak about Attorney General Loretta Lynch and what she
is calling her greatest priority right now.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

LORETTA LYNCH, U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL: And my message, not to just the Muslim
community, but the entire American community is, we cannot give in to the fear
that these backlashes are really based on.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Break tonight. New backlash to how the administration is reacting to the
San Bernardino attack. Well, the FBI has now labeled this massacre terrorism.
The White House has not yet done the same.

And just last night, with 14 people dead in California, Attorney General Loretta
Lynch spoke to a different fear.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Since the tragic attacks in Paris three weeks ago, there's
been a decidedly disturbing uptick in anti-Muslim rhetoric. It's been very
divisive and many of us, frankly, feel that the rhetoric is the worst that it's
ever been.

LYNCH: The fear that you just mentioned is in fact my greatest fear as a
prosecutor. As someone who was sworn to the protection of all of the American
people, which is that the rhetoric will be accompanied by acts of violence.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Joining me now, presidential candidate and republican senator from the
State of Florida, Marco Rubio. Senator, thank you very much for being with us
tonight. And so, your reaction to how the White House has handled this so far.

MARCO RUBIO, (R) U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Inexplicable, really. First of
all, from the very first instances after this happened, they like most people on
the left immediately jump on this whole gun control argument, without knowing
any of the facts about this case, just immediately jumped on that and it
continued banging the drum of gun control.

Up until today, when as every hour went by, the indications were greater and
greater that this was a terrorist act. And we know that it was irrespective of
whether or not the White House or not has acknowledged that yet.

It continues to be the case, but as evidence comes out, we know it's a terrorist
attack. They didn't even wait. They immediately jumped on it. It's just another
example of another mass killing and this is why we need gun control. Completely
ignoring that none of the laws that they are proposing would have done anything
to prevent this shooting, or any of the previous shootings that they've cited or
pointed to.

KELLY: What do you make of the Attorney General, Loretta Lynch who comes out
today, doesn't even call it a terrorism investigation. It took the FBI director
sitting next to her to say that.

At the same time, she's sending a message to Muslims groups last night saying
she will make sure that any hateful rhetoric against Muslims is looked into. I
was like, she's all by the way, you know, and we do have the First Amendment,
but I'm going to look into that.

RUBIO: Well, first of all, the problem that we have them is they refuse to
acknowledge that we are at war with radical Jihadists. Second, is they have this
narrative going. It's the same thing that led to the lies about Benghazi.

This narrative that somehow this problem has contained that we don't have
anything to worry about, that terror, that ISIS is the JV team, that we're not
in any danger. And so, they continue to want to pretend that this is not a major
issue the way it is and they refuse to acknowledge that we're engage in a war on
terror.

And so, that is my problem with the apart from all the policy mistakes that
they're making is that they continue not to call these things for what they are,
because it counters a political narrative that they are trying to further. Which
is that there is no war on terror here?

KELLY: How much danger are we in?

RUBIO: So, we have two major issues that we're facing. One is they are inserting
foreign fighters. They're inserting fighters into Europe. I think Jordan is
going the target -- the target they're going to target here very soon from some
large scale attacks.

And they would like to use the refugee crisis to insert fighters here in America
and terrorists here in America. But there's a second problem, and one we would
never really face before up intil the last few years. The homegrown violent
extremists.

The individual, perhaps born and raised in the United States, who has never
exhibited any sort of ideological leaning towards terrorism...

(CROSSTALK)

KELLY: That's this guy.

RUBIO: ... and then suddenly they become a rapidly radical. Well, exactly. He
became rapidly radicalized and turned that into action. And this is why they put
out magazines, like Dabiq, their online publication; they are looking to inspire
attacks in the West.

Individuals, they don't necessarily coordinate with them but they are telling
them how to attack and they're inspiring them to attack. And those are the
hardest ones to find because you just don't see them coming.

KELLY: It's -- but it's like you have to find a direct communication between
al-Baghdadi who is running ISIS and the individual here in the United States now
in order for the administration to say this is clearly terror. There doesn't
have to be that direct link, does there?

RUBIO: Right. There doesn't. And that's the point. There is a homegrown violent
extremists. They're not individuals that are receiving an order to attack this
certain place at a certain time in a certain way.

What they are doing is they are getting mass information through propaganda
online and other methods that inspire them not just to attack, but suggest ways
to attack. They talk about targeting service men and women, military facilities.

But they've also talked about targeting soft targets. Anywhere you can get away
with the killing of maximum number of people. And that is the threat that is
continuing to grow. The homegrown violent extremists, there are active
investigations open in virtually every field office that the FBI has in this
country.

It is a threat unlike anything we have ever faced and it is rapidly growing. And
each one of these attacks makes the next attack even more likely because of copy
cats that are inspired to try to do the same thing.

KELLY: Senator, thank you.

RUBIO: Thank you.

KELLY: Up next. Meet a woman shots three times in that conference room,
Wednesday. And hear how she managed to survive.

KELLY: Among the wounded yesterday, Anice Kanduker (ph), an environmental
engineer who works for the county, was inside the conference room. She was shot
twice in the hand and once in the stomach but survived. And we had the chance to
speak with her husband by phone.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She's just returning from the restroom and going towards the
conference room, that's when all the bullets started flying through. You know,
they started hitting her, going above her head. Then she and a few other people
then ducked down themselves and, you know, crawled them into the bathroom.

Until then she realized she was bleeding. Then the -- her jacket had blood
wound, you now, blood hole through the jacket and she was bleeding.

Her friend told her that, you know, there was a couple who was with, you know,
with ski masks shooting at the people and until, you know, they found out.
Police found out then they know who these people are.

They all work together in the same team. And this guy is working there for five
years, with the same team. Nothing unusual. Nobody ever suspected anything
unusual. That's what I'm hearing from her and some of her co- workers.

She is crying still, she can't believe that her best friend who she worked with
being shot and killed. Nobody can comprehend how that something can happen. You
know, this is definitely something, you know, beyond understanding.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KELLY: Our best to Anice and all those recovering right now in the hospital as a
result of this dastardly act. We'll be right back.

KELLY: A final note, Ms. Lynch is right. That we must be wary of anti-Muslim
backlash. We also must be vigilant as director Comey said. If you see something,
say something. Someone's life could depend on it.

Having said that, remember, you have a much better chance of getting hit by
lightning than of dying in a terrorist attack. There's a big Christmas tree in
New York right now, go see it. Go shopping, be free. That's what we do. Good
night.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120401cb.251

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               47 of 47 DOCUMENTS


                                Fox News Network

                            December 4, 2015 Friday

                         SHOW: FOX HANNITY 10:00 PM EST

ISIS in America

BYLINE: Adam Housley, Sean Hannity, Will Carr, K.T. McFarland, Newt Gingrich

GUESTS: Sebastian Gorka, Richard Miniter, Jim Carafano, Brigitte Gabriel, Robert
Spencer, Imam Mohamed Sideeq

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 7315  words


ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX CORRESPONDENT: "FOX News Alert." I'm Adam Housley in Redlands,
California, where the hunt for the information regarding Wednesday's potential
terrorist attack continues not only here locally but across the country and
around the globe.

We're now learning that the -- or The Los Angeles Times, as you (ph) say, is
reporting that the two individuals, the husband and wife that is accused of this
killing -- that they may have contacted terror organizations, two that we know
of, according to The Times, in the Middle East, including a Somalian-based
organization.

Now, we're also told that they have a money chain, according to the sources that
we have, that does extend outside the country. They will not tell us where that
goes because they're, of course, still trying to find those connections.

It comes on a day that the FBI finally says what the rest of the people here on
the ground have been thinking from the beginning, that this was likely an act of
terrorism. Take a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DAVID BOWDICH, FBI LOS ANGELES ASST. DIR.: Based on the information and the
facts as we know them, we are now investigating these horrific acts as an act of
terrorism.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HOUSLEY: An act of terrorism -- that is the term that investigators have been
saying from the first hours of this investigation, after the murder of 14
innocent people and 21 others during a Christmas party here in nearby San
Bernardino County -- San Bernardino, I should say, California, which is right
near Redlands, California, where we're located. And the investigation does
continue, as I mentioned. News coming in. We'll keep you updated throughout the
night.

Until then, I'm Adam Housley. Now back to "Hannity."

SEAN HANNITY, HOST: And welcome to "Hannity." Tonight, it was an act of terror.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DAVID BOWDICH, FBI LOS ANGELES ASST. DIR.: Based on the information and the
facts as we know them, we are now investigating those horrific acts as an act of
terrorism.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: The FBI is now investigating the San Bernardino massacre that killed 14
people as an act of terrorism carried out by a pair of radical Islamists right
here on U.S. soil. Now, according to government officials, Syed Farook and his
wife extensively plotted their attack. They stockpiled weapons and ammunition,
constructed multiple IEDs inside the apartment where they were raising their
6-month-old baby.

And that's not all. Today, a Facebook official confirmed that the female suspect
pledged allegiance to ISIS in a post at the very same moment that she was waging
jihad with her husband. Now, this is now the single -- single deadliest
terrorist attack in American soil since 9/11.

And earlier today, attorneys for the suspects' family made outrageous comments
during a press conference. Listen to this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There's never been any evidence that either of the two
alleged shooters were aggressive, had extremist views.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think every investigation the FBI does when its involving a
Muslim will involve some type of terrorist investigation.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: When a Christian goes to shoot up a Planned Parenthood, or an
extreme Catholic goes and bombs an abortion clinic, all of the headlines don't
say, Extremist radical Christian...

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: Joining us now with reaction, the Major General Horner Distinguished
Chair of Military Theory at Marine Corps University, Dr. Sebastian Gorka.

Dr. Gorka, let's start with the new developments today. By the way, I guess
widows and orphans mean that women can be terrorists, too, if we're taking in
Syrian refugees.

But your reaction to what you heard at that press conference, almost complete
denial by the family attorney, which is very disturbing, and the new
developments that they, in fact, were radicalized.

SEBASTIAN GORKA, MARINE CORPS UNIVERSITY: Well, Sean, I think that attorney
should apply for a job with CAIR. Absolutely stunning! This waffling about
religions and freedom of religion -- what about to the freedom of religion of
the victims that were gunned down in Los Angeles by these two jihadists?

Of course this is an ISIS attack. Let's just get the political correctness, you
know, jettison that right now. If you're swearing biya (ph), if you're swearing
allegiance to the head of ISIS as your new caliph, as your new emperor -- I
don't care if ISIS was sending detailed instructions to these pair of mass
murderers. This is an ISIS attack because it is following their ideology and
their intent to destroy the infidel on U.S. soil. It's really that sample, Sean.

HANNITY: You know, there was a poll out that showed that 16 percent of French
citizens actually supported ISIS. And they've had an open immigration system. We
now know that the DHS actually cleared this woman with a Pakistani passport. And
by the way, she got a K-1 visa and then she got a Green Card.

Now, the president wants to take in 10,000 Syrian refugees. Our intelligence
officials are warning they can't properly vet them. I'm arguing that the
president's gambling with the lives of the American people.

In light of these developments, in light of what happened in France with the
refugee population infiltrated by ISIS, how big a risk do you see this as?

GORKA: It's enormous, Sean. My parents were refugees, so let's take the emotion
out of it. When they escaped communist Hungary, they had to sit in a refugee
camp for weeks, some of their relatives for months, until what? Until they were
cleared and could prove that they were truly persecuted individuals who deserved
to come to the West.

Director Comey is absolutely correct, out of the bureau. There's only two ways
to vet a refugee. Number one, check their information against a reliable
database. We don't have access to databases in Syria that could even help us
mildly or moderately vet these people.

And the second is extensive counterintelligence interrogations lasting days, if
not weeks. And we don't have the manpower to do that, and this administration
wouldn't even countenance such a counterintelligence measure. So if you're ISIS,
what are you going to do? You're going to salt your operatives in theses
refugees, exploit the situation and endanger Americans in America, Sean.

HANNITY: He's gambling with our lives, is my argument. We now have a president
that is incapable, seemingly, to recognize simple and basic and fundamental
truths. He can't even use the term "radical Islam." But he claims, the president
-- he's been so wrong so often -- this is the JV team, they are contained,
contradicted by the chairman of the Joint Chiefs and by Dianne Feinstein, and
then making -- saying they do not represent an existential threat to America.

Wrong on all fronts! How can the president of the United States be at this level
of denial, which is now bordering on a pathological illness of some kind?

GORKA: I think it's a combination of two things. I think it's the -- you know,
the naked king, the naked emperor. Nobody in his bubble wants to tell him what
the truth is. This is clear that he's isolated from America and from the threat.

And second, it's an incredible combination of arrogance and ignorance. We have
people in the White House, deputy national security advisers, whose
qualifications are a master's degree in fictional writing and fine arts. Since
when does that qualify you to protect America and understand the threat?

We have incompetence mixed with arrogance and combined with isolation, and
that's how we are in this Alice in Wonderland fantasy today, where the
commander-in-chief thinks that global warming or climate change is more
important than terrorism and the caliphate!

HANNITY: Very well said. We appreciate it, Dr. Gorka. Thank you for being with
us.

GORKA: Thank you, Sean.

HANNITY: Joining us now with more reaction is the CEO of the American Media
Institute. Richard Miniter is back with us, former Army and homeland security
expert James Carafano and FOX News national security analyst K.T. McFarland.

Let me first take you guys -- FOX News got into the apartment where they were
building their IEDs, the 15 pipe bombs, where they had their arsenal of weapons,
et cetera, and ammunition.

Let's take a look inside one of our reporters, Will Carr, got in there.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

WILL CARR, FOX CORRESPONDENT: They ended up finding 12 IEDs. This has now been
called an IED factory. When you come in, you can see there are holes in the
walls here that have been cut out.

They have receipts that were left by the FBI for some of the items they've
taken. I've looked at those receipts. They list a number of guns. They list
ammunition. We told you that they had thousands of rounds in here.

On the table in the living room, there's a Quran. There's also prayer rugs that
are hanging all across the house, evidence of their faith.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

HANNITY: Richard, in light of now this being a terrorist attack, the allegiance
of this woman to ISIS, the pipe bombs, the ammunition, the dead people, et
cetera, and then you listen to the family attorney, with his back up and saying
that we really don't have -- it's nebulous -- you know, some nebulous thing on
Facebook, et cetera, et cetera, we need to wait for to the investigation, when
already, we've determined these things -- what is your reaction to that? What is
your reaction CAIR blaming America, which we'll get into later?

RICHARD MINITER, CEO OF AMERICAN MEDIA INSTITUTE: Sean, I was listening to that
stumbling family attorney offer the most ridiculous of objections, as if there's
a wave of anti-Muslim hatred that's about to break over the United States if we
dare point out the radical Islamic message that these killers left behind.

Secondly, he insisted that all they did was look at a Facebook page and write a
Facebook post swearing allegiance to the head of ISIS.

HANNITY: We have 72 people on the watch list that work for the Department of
Homeland Security! This woman with the Pakistani passport -- guess what? They
did a security background check on her! We're taking in 10,000 Syrian refugees!
ISIS infiltrated the refugee population in Paris and has promised to do so here!
And our intelligence officers are saying that.

And the president's still insisting we got to bring them in, regardless of the
nature of the threat to the American people, gambling with the lives of the
American people!

JIM CARAFANO, FMR. ARMY & HOMELAND SECURITY EXPERT: You know what's funny? You
say that, and that was my first thought that went through my head when it was
clear this was a terrorist act. And what I thought was actually, Why have we
spent seven years of this administration focusing the Department of Homeland
Security on how can we implement amnesty and -- you know, and deal with global
warming in the Department of Homeland Security, diverting the department and
diverting other people from focusing on real issues?

And here why it's important, is today we're all looking at this and saying that
this is the new face of terror, and it's the new face of terror today. And you
know what? Tomorrow, it'll be a different face.

So one of the things we have is a database that tracks all the Islamist terror
plots against the United States since 9/11. We have at least 75 known plots. And
here's what I can tell you...

HANNITY: And a thousand investigations. Let's be clear here! There's a thousand
in all 50 states, FBI probes of ISIS in America! This is about ISIS is now in
America!

CARAFANO: And they have to get ahead of it.

(CROSSTALK)

HANNITY: And he's leading from behind!

CARAFANO: And that's the great...

(CROSSTALK)

MINITER: ... great title, Sean.

HANNITY: K.T.

K.T. MCFARLAND, FOX NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST: Look, what -- political
correctness is now going to kill people. Why? Because of that intimidation --
don't hurt anybody's feelings, don't come out and say what you really think.

The neighbors of the massacre, the killers, they were afraid to go report what
they had seen, suspicious activity, because they were afraid they were going to
be accused of racial profiling or of discrimination. As a result of their
hesitation to come forward, people died.

HANNITY: It's frightening.

MCFARLAND: We're now seeing -- and you just said, Sean -- you said there were
over a thousand people who were on this list. Do you know it takes two dozen
government workers, state, federal, local, FBI, NSA to monitor one bad guy 24/7.
So if we're talking about 100 people are being monitored 24/7 now, and there are
a thousand that are on that list, we do not have the resources to look at all of
those people.

We need Americans to come forward and say, You know, I -- there's something
suspicious going on. And if we have a political correctness regime...

HANNITY: We can't risk...

MCFARLAND: ... that keeps -- we are (INAUDIBLE) killing people.

HANNITY: We cannot risk that with ISIS infiltrating the refugee population in
Paris, and then the attack happened there -- what makes this president so
arrogant that he will gamble with the lives of American people after Paris,
after San Bernardino? It's outrageous!

Thank you all for being with us. Appreciate it.

And coming up, ISIS is here in America, and the president has the nerve to say
this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: You're seeing the kind of crisis
that we can't deal with through the deployment of the Marines. We can't deal
with it through throwing money at it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: Unbelievable! Pathological! Former House speaker Newt Gingrich -- he's
here with reaction.

Also, later tonight...

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Let's not forget that some of our own foreign policy, as
Americans, as the West have fueled that extremism.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: The head of CAIR -- remember the group, unindicted co- conspirators and
the Holy Land Foundation case some years ago? Well, the head of CAIR in LA, that
chapter, has the nerve to say America is in part fueling terrorism!

That and more on this busy news night.

HANNITY: And welcome back to "Hannity." The terrorist attack in San Bernardino
on Wednesday is likely not an isolated incident. Now, get this. There are
currently over 1,000 ongoing ISIS-related investigations in all 50 states. And
according to a study done by the researchers at George Washington University's
program on extremism -- get this -- 71 people have been charged with
ISIS-related crimes since March of 2014.

And that's not all. According to the House Homeland Security Committee, over 250
Americans have traveled overseas to fight with ISIS or other terror
organizations since 2011.

Joining us now with reaction, author of the brand-new book called "Duplicity,"
former Speaker of the House, and of course, a FOX News contributor, Newt
Gingrich is with us.

You were on my radio show today. And I want you to -- at the end of the
interview, you said something that was extraordinarily chilling to me, but I
actually think it's true. You said that this president represents the greatest
national security threat to ever occupy the White House. And it's not something
that I think any American wants to ever say about any president, putting all
politics aside.

But you believe that. Why?

NEWT GINGRICH (R-GA), FMR. SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE, FOX CONTRIBUTOR: Well, I think
that the danger from Islamic supremacists grows every year. I think sooner or
later, they're going to learn how to make biological or chemical or nuclear
weapons or how to buy them or steal them. I think we have at risk losing an
American city.

And I think you have a president, who for psychological reasons for ideological
reasons, for whatever reason is incapable of dealing with, recognizing, being
honest about this threat.

And let me say one simple change, Sean, will begin to move us in the right
direction. What happened in California was an act of war. We need to drop this
notion that there are these random terror acts. This was an act of war. It was
an attack on America by people who want to destroy our way of life.

And once we get this in our head -- these are acts of war going on. These are
people -- there are a thousand cases of people preparing to wage war against the
United States, and you have an attorney general and a president and a secretary
of state who are incapable of understanding the reality of the world we live in.

HANNITY: It really -- it really is stunning. And when we learned that we
wouldn't bomb the oil fields where ISIS is getting its money because of
environmental concerns, that's scary. But how can the president be so wrong so
often, the JV team, that they are contained, that they are not an existential
threat to America, all comments about the president, all wrong!

GINGRICH: No, the president contemptuously talked about how Republicans were
afraid of orphans and widows because he apparently has no notion of how often
women have been very successful and very effective terrorists.

And now we have a new example. Here's a woman who pledges her loyalty to ISIS on
her way to kill Americans. Maybe the president will face reality and understand
the Republicans who are worried about women terrorists are right. These are real
people. These things actually happen. And yet this president seems to live in a
fantasy world. Surrounded by the Secret Service, he's personally safe, but the
rest of America is not.

HANNITY: Well, that raises, then, the question of the president's insistence on
10,000 Syrian refugees. I think this is important. The director of national
intelligence, James Clapper, James Comey, the FBI director, the assistant FBI
director, the general in charge of strategies to take on ISIS have all said we
cannot properly vet these people.

As a matter of fact, Obama's own Department of Homeland Security vetted this
woman and gave her a K-1 visa and then a Green Card!

GINGRICH: The Congress should put in the continuing resolution that's coming up
a prohibition on any funding that goes to fund new refugees coming in this
country from Syria because the truth is, we have no idea who these people are.
And I think it is -- the White House statements are just total falsehoods. And
why they're saying them, I can't quite imagine, but I think it fits their world
view.

They're not in the business of protecting Americans, they're in the business of
-- as you saw from the attorney general's comments, they're more worried about
protecting Muslims and the sensitivity of Muslims than they are about protecting
the lives of Americans.

HANNITY: I keep talking about a clash of cultures, a clash of civilizations, and
I keep using examples. If somebody was raised in Saudi Arabia, where women must
dress a certain way, cannot be seen in public without a male relative, if you're
a woman, cannot drive a car, under sharia in other countries, four male
eyewitnesses for rape -- I bring these examples up -- how do we ascertain
whether or not somebody is coming here to assimilate and get the breath of
freedom and liberty that they've never had and give it to their children, or are
they coming to -- to bring their ideas to us and bring those views with them?

I'll give you an example. Since Obama's been president, 239 people -- according
to Senator Jeff Sessions, 83,000 individuals from Pakistan, 83,000 from Iraq,
239,000 total people from 2009 to 2013 have come from what we would describe as
terrorist states, or states that are hotbeds for terror. Should we rethink that?
Do we have to revisit that, student visas for Saudi students, for example.

GINGRICH: Look, we have to more than rethink that. Remember, the husband who was
involved in an act of war in California this week is American-born. The British
subway bombings in the 1990s were by British citizens who'd been born in Great
Britain, given a free education, lived in public housing, lived in the British
welfare state.

So you have this whole problem, as I describe in my novel "Duplicity," of an
epidemiology. This is a virus. It is not ISIS in Syria. It's not Boko Haram in
Nigeria. It's not al Shabaab in Somalia. There is a worldwide pattern of Islamic
supremacists that is gradually moving on the Internet that is more and more
dangerous. There's some evidence that the pipe bombs, for example, in
California, were built coming off of a Web site from al Qaeda.

HANNITY: Al Qaeda, yes. You know, here's a scary thought. If the president said
if you're on a terror watch list, you ought not be allowed to buy a gun. Well,
Congressman Steve Lynch pointed out back in August the Department of Homeland
Security -- this should shock every American about how bureaucratic and
incompetent our government is -- our Department of Homeland Security -- there
have 72 individuals that work there that are on the terror watch list. I mean,
if they shouldn't buy a gun, they shouldn't be working for the Department of
Homeland Security.

GINGRICH: Let me go a step further. If they're not American citizens, if they're
here on a visa, why are they still here?

HANNITY: It's great point.

GINGRICH: We should have a very expedited procedure for extraditing anybody...

(CROSSTALK)

HANNITY: Criminal aliens are being release, though. We -- we keep talking about
the crimes of criminal aliens -- I didn't mean to interrupt you. Let me -- talk
about the impact that the events in Paris and now ISIS on American soil that you
think we'll have in this election. My last question.

GINGRICH: Well, I think the Democratic Party's in grave danger of becoming a
party recognized for its inability to protect Americans. I think the American
people will not tolerate being at risk.

And I think that strong personalities -- this is a big asset to Trump. I think
it's a pretty big asset to Cruz and to Rubio because all of them come across as
very strong personalities. And I think people want strength. People are
legitimately frightened. It's not illegitimate. And the attorney general's
comments yesterday were insulting to every American. You have every right to be
frightened. Paris and San Bernardino are not isolated cases. We are, in fact, in
danger.

HANNITY: And I would argue that we need a wartime president. Mr. Speaker, thank
you so much. Appreciate your time.

GINGRICH: Thank you.

HANNITY: And coming up next tonight on this busy news night here on "Hannity"...

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Let's not forget that some of our own foreign policy, as
Americans, as the West, have fueled that extremism.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: The CAIR LA director blaming America for fueling terrorism. So when is
this madness going to stop?

Then later tonight...

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They were actually doing a lot of work out in the garage. And
she was kind of suspicious and was -- wanted to report it, but she said I didn't
-- she didn't want to profile.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: Now, the neighbor of these terrorists didn't say anything about the San
Bernardino suspects to police. Why? For fear that they would say that they were
being racially profiled. We'll check in with Kimberly Guilfoyle and Eric
Bolling. They'll join us here with reaction as "Hannity" continues.

HANNITY: And welcome back to "Hannity." Now, during a recent interview, the LA
director for the Center for American Islamic Relations made some outrageous
remarks blaming America. Watch this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Let's not forget, as we speak today, ISIS has killed -- 95
percent of the victims of ISIS are Muslims themselves. And let's not forget that
at the forefront of fighting ISIS today are the brave Syrian people, who are
fighting on both sides, the barbaric regime of Assad and the barbarism of ISIS.

So we should give credit when credit is due. We actually have left the Syrian
people alone as they fight and embattle with ISIS. And then we complain and say,
What are the Muslim people doing to root out terrorism and extremism?

Let's not forget that some of our own foreign policy as Americans, as the West,
have fueled that extremism. When we support coup leaders in Egypt or other
places, when we support dictatorships, repressive regimes around the world that
push people over to the edge, then they become extremists, then they become
terrorists, we are partly responsible. So this -- terrorism is a global problem,
not a Muslim problem, and the solution has to be global. Everybody has a role in
it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: No, America's not partly responsible for terror attacks. Pretty
unbelievable. Now, you may remember, keep in mind back in 2007, CAIR was
designated by the FBI as an unindicted co-conspirator for supporting Hamas in
the case of the United States versus the Holy Land Foundation.

Here with reaction, author of "The Complete Infidel's Guide to ISIS," Jihad
Watch's director, Robert Spencer, the president for Act for America, Brigitte
Gabriel, and Indianapolis-area imam Mohamed Sideeq (ph) is with us.

Once again, Imam, here we have it again, Islamic terror, Muslim terrorism. And
why does this keep happening?

IMAM MOHAMED SIDEEQ: Well, first of all, I wouldn't put it in those terms, Sean.
But let's say with the name (ph) God most gracious and most merciful, we offer
our condolences...

HANNITY: Well, she pledged...

(CROSSTALK)

HANNITY: ... allegiance to the Islamic State!

SIDEEQ: ... and in the wars...

HANNITY: She pledged her allegiance to the Islamic State!

(CROSSTALK)

SIDEEQ: We don't know that. Well, that's not the report that I heard. I heard
that they...

HANNITY: That's not the report you heard? Brigitte, did you hear what I heard?

SIDEEQ: I did not hear that report like that.

BRIGITTE GABRIEL, ACT FOR AMERICA FOUNDER: That's exactly what I heard! This is
Islamic terrorism and it is Islamic terrorism rising all over the world! And we
in America have avoided talking about Islamic terrorism because we do not want
to offend anybody! We do not want to hurt anybody!

Well, it's time to throw political correctness in the garbage because right now,
those who were afraid to report suspicious activities almost have blood on their
hands because the fear crippled them from speaking the truth! And it's about
time we start speaking the truth!

(CROSSTALK)

HANNITY: Hang on, Imam. We got other people on the show.

SIDEEQ: Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Sean.

HANNITY: Robert Spencer -- Robert, let me bring you into this. Now, you have
studied ISIS. This is part of their M.O. They want to radicalize. They want to
use the Internet. It's believed that they used the blueprint from al Qaeda,
their on-line magazine, to build the pipe bombs. And interestingly, and I think
in a scary way, they were going after these IEDs.

What does this mean?

ROBERT SPENCER, JIHAD WATCH: Well, what they have is a comprehensive plan, Sean,
to sow blood and mayhem in the streets of the United States. They have a very
detailed guidebook for Muslims in the United States on how they can mount terror
attacks exactly like the one that we saw in San Bernardino and to blend in
before they mount the attack with the larger population. They instruct them
explicitly, Don't carry around a Quran, don't go to mosques, don't appear to be
an observant Muslim. And we will call upon you when it's time to strike. What
they hope to do is overwhelm the American law enforcement and intelligence with
so many of these plots that the system will collapse and then they will be able
to take all full advantage of that.

HANNITY: And we need to now -- do we need to reevaluate, Robert, in this society
the cultural clash and whether or not our immigration problem, our immigration
laws, our visa laws, do we need to now go back and reevaluate?

SPENCER: Absolutely. There needs to be a drastic overhaul. Many jihad terrorists
have gotten into the United States through the visa waiver program which
basically eliminates checks from 38 countries as well as the refugee, and the
refugee resettlement and asylum programs -- these have been taken advantage of
by terrorists since the mastermind of the 1993 World Trade Center bombing when
the blind sheikh who masterminded that bombing was an asylum seeker.

HANNITY: And your reaction to that? Are we just going to let Syrian refugees in
when our intelligence officials say that some may be radicalized? Brigitte?

GABRIEL: No, we shouldn't. Obviously there's no vetting system good enough to
let these refugees in. We have to protect ourselves. We cannot let these
refugees in. We cannot know their background. There is no database that we can
compare the names on it. And at this point, knowing that ISIS is in this country
and knowing that ISIS wants to come into the country, there is no way we can let
them in.

And also, Sean, we need to do retraining of our first responders and FBI agents,
those who were trained that jihad was basically as yoga, because, remember Obama
purged all our counterterrorism training manuals from any reference to jihad,
Islamic terrorism. All these new agents need to understand exactly what we are
dealing with.

HANNITY: Thank you all for being with us. We have much more on this busy news
night tonight on HANNITY straight ahead.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They were actually doing a lot of work out in the garage. And
she was kind of suspicious and was wanted to report it, but she said I didn't
want -- she didn't want to profile.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: The neighbor did not say anything about the San Bernardino suspects to
police for fear that they would say that she was racially profiling. So is
political correctness going to kill us?

Plus tonight --

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

LORETTA LYNCH, U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL: Here in the U.S., an incredible rise in
anti-Muslim rhetoric, the fear that you have just mentioned is in fact my
greatest fear as a prosecutor.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: Anti-Muslim rhetoric is the attorney general's biggest fear? If that's
true, what about radical Islamists themselves? We have a big problem. We'll
check in with "THE FIVE" co-hosts Kimberly Guilfoyle and Eric Bolling. They're
here tonight.

Plus, coming up first, if you thought the "New York Daily News" cover was
disgusting yesterday, you won't believe what they did today. They called the
head of the NRA Wayne LaPierre a terrorist. We have got that next.

ADAM HOUSLEY, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: FOX News alert, I'm Adam Housley in
Redlands, California, where the FBI now says this is a terrorist investigation.
And tonight they tell us they believe the two killers that murdered 14 on
Wednesday, injuring 21 others, most likely did contact terror organizations
outside the U.S. They have been telling us for more than a day they believe the
money trail also leads outside the United States.

Still a lot of investigative work to be done, a tedious process not only here
locally, but across the country and around the globe. It comes on a day that the
families of the two killers spoke through their lawyers, and that press
conference upsetting many when the lawyers insinuated this is about religion.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: -- they were inspired by some groups. But there hasn't been
any clear smoking gun evidence that they were part of any particular cell or any
group.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HOUSLEY: Federal agents did watch that press conference. They say they were very
frustrated with what they say was misinformation given by the lawyers about what
they have done and also about the ongoing investigation and the ties they
believe to terrorism. In the meantime, again, the investigation does continue.
We do expect major developments overnight tonight and throughout the weekend.
Stay with FOX. We'll have all those for you. Until then I'm Adam Housley in
Redlands. Now back to HANNITY.

HANNITY: Welcome back to HANNITY. They did it again. Now, yesterday the "New
York Daily News" printed this disgusting cover which was entitled "God isn't
fixing this," along with comments from Republicans saying that their thoughts
and prayers were with the victims in San Bernardino. And today the liberal paper
once again outdid themselves when they call the executive vice president and CEO
of the NRA Wayne LaPierre a terrorist. He's a terrorist, then they put terrorist
there and then said he is too.

Joining us now, former executive director for Every Town for Gun Safety Mark
Glaze, and former NYPD detective Bo Dietl. Mark, I'm a proud member of the NRA.
I've been a marksman since I was 11-years-old. Let me ask you a question. If,
God forbid, you were in a room like the 14 victims and the 21 other victims that
are fighting for their lives and trying to get well, if you're in that rule, Bo
Dietl carries a gun, Sean Hannity is trained in the use of a firearm. Do you
want us in there with you if that's unfolding?

MARK GLAZE, FORMER EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, EVERY TOWN FOR GUN SAFETY: The truth is I
shot guns. My dad is a federally licensed gun dealer.

HANNITY: I didn't ask you that. Did I ask you if you shoot guns? I asked you a
question.

GLAZE: I'm going to answer your question. I might well want you with me, because
you might give me a little bit of a chance.

HANNITY: A little chance.

GLAZE: Any law enforcement official will tell you, a civilian with a gun is not
going to stop somebody who comes in with an AR-15 and body armor.

HANNITY: Bo and I have been out together, and Bo and I would communicate with
our eyes and he would go this way and I would that way.

GLAZE: You communicate with your eyes?

HANNITY: Would we be able to in the situation like that when they drop that
first clip and they were reloading, wouldn't you be able to take them out?

BO DIETL, FORMER NYPD DETECTIVE: Let me talk, please. If someone comes in there
and starts shooting and he unloads his clip, I'll be damned if I stand there and
Sean would stand there and let him reload another clip before you start firing
at the guys. It is definitely, they go in these gun free zones like that place
that they went in California. There's so many terrorist attacks and shooting
attacks, domestic terrorists, they go in where there's a gun free zone. If they
know where nobody has an arm, the movie theater where no one can go back at
them. Guns don't kill people. People kill them. If they don't have guns, these
terrorists, what they're going to have next bombs, chemical weapons. What are we
going to do then?

HANNITY: They had the IED making equipment. They have 15 pipe bombs. That looks
like a duplicate of what was on to the Al Qaeda site.

DIETL: They didn't have any body armor on. Just imagine if one person in that
office when he came in and shooting at the party, if one person had a legal
firearm on them, I mean, was proficient in it, and all of a sudden when the
clips drop out, he was able to shoot these two, then we could have saved a lot
of people.

HANNITY: It's interesting. Mark, I bet you everybody watching at home listening
to Bo Dietl and listening to me would speak the obvious, yes, it would be a good
thing if a trained person with a firearm was in that room. And you say, well,
maybe, because you've got an agenda, and your agenda is you don't want people to
have weapons, and somehow in your twisted liberal brains you kind of believe
that weapons are the problems or that criminals will obey laws. You know what, I
just don't buy that. And Americans are sitting ducks, because people like you
don't want law abiding citizens to have guns.

GLAZE: Is there a question in here somewhere?

HANNITY: Not really.

GLAZE: I didn't think so.

HANNITY: Not for you because I think you have already made up your mind. You're
not being honest. What do you really want?

GLAZE: I think law abiding citizens ought to have guns.

HANNITY: Would you want us in there or not?

GLAZE: No, I would actually like a police officer or a security guard.

HANNITY: He's a former detective.

DIETL: You know what I would like. I would like more people to join gun clubs
and practice and be proficient with their weapon so if something happens at
least we have a damned chance. If you don't have a gun, you can't fight someone
with a gun without a gun. I don't care. I'm in the security business. Now they
ask for unarmed security. I said that's not really security because if someone
comes in with a gun --

GLAZE: I got two things for you. I got two things for you. First of all, I think
that's fine. If you're a law abiding citizen, get a gun, go practice, and get a
concealed carry permit. I think that's perfectly OK. Second thing is, I would
rather keep guns away from people like these terrorists who shouldn't have them
in the first place. I think that's a better solution.

HANNITY: I think a better solution is not having 72 people on the terror watch
list that work for the Department of Homeland Security. Did you know that, Mark?

GLAZE: I didn't. But if we're going to try to pass that terror gap law to keep
people on the terror watch list from getting guns, then we ought to clean the
list first. I totally agree with you.

HANNITY: The fact is you weren't being honest when I first asked you. You should
want people that are trained in the use of a firearm there, and that's the
point. The reality is most Americans would. But if you have your way it would be
very difficult for Americans to get that pistol carry --

DIETL: You know, Sean, what's really irresponsible, and you know what, Mort
Zuckerman "Daily News" should be sued. They're calling the head of the NRA a
terrorist, put his picture there.

GLAZE: That's a bad idea.

DIETL: And that's slanderous.

GLAZE: I totally agree, I totally agree. They should not be doing that. I think
Wayne LaPierre mourns like everybody else when there's a mass shooting. I
disagree with them. It's a bad idea to be calling people --

DIETL: Sean, this guy ain't that bad. He could hang out with this, this guy.

HANNITY: You think so?

DIETL: Yes.

HANNITY: Can you hang with us, Mark?

GLAZE: I can hang with you. And I want to.

(LAUGHTER)

HANNITY: And coming up, is political correctness going to kill us? "THE FIVE"
co-hosts Kimberly Guilfoyle and Eric Bolling, they are up next to answer that
question as we continue.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They had, I guess receiving packages, quite a few packages
within a short amount of time. And they were actually doing a lot of work out in
the garage. And she was kind of suspicious and was -- wanted to report it, but
she said she didn't want to profile.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: So has political correctness gone too far. Now, the neighbor saw
something but was afraid to say something for fear of being blamed for racial
profiling. But that's not all. Yesterday at the Muslim Advocates 10th
anniversary different, the attorney general, Loretta Lynch, made some surprising
comments about what her greatest fear is. Really? Watch this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

LYNCH: Here in the U.S. an incredibly disturbing rise in anti-Muslim rhetoric,
the fear that you have just mentioned is in fact my greatest fear as a
prosecutor.

My message to not just the Muslim community but the entire American community is
we cannot give in to the fear that these backlashes are really based on.

As we again talk about the importance of free speech we make it clear that
action predicated on violent talk are not American. They're not who we are.
They're not what we do. And they will be prosecuted.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: Violent talk? What about radical Islamists? Here with reaction, the
co-hosts of "THE FIVE," our good friends Eric Bolling and Kimberly Guilfoyle,
better known as EB and KG.

(LAUGHTER)

HANNITY: Let me put two cases together and get your thoughts on them. Do you
remember the clock kid, Ahmed? All right, suing for $15 million. The MRC
actually took a replica of that, asked 50 people randomly what they thought it
was. They all said a bomb. The teacher said something, $15 million lawsuit. In
this case they saw this activity, suspicious activity, they were all afraid to
say something. So can we argue that political correctness now is putting
American lives in danger?

KIMBERLY GUILFOYLE, CO-HOST, "THE FIVE": I absolutely think so. Political
correctness has now become a security threat for all of us because people are
afraid to be chastised. Well, why? The message comes from the White House and
from the Justice Department. The biggest concern besides climate change is that
we don't want to offend any of the Muslims out there.

Listen, when did it ever become a problem to be a responsible citizen to help
contribute to the public safety and national security of the country and get
involved and help out in your community? Look at the consequences. We saw it in
San Bernardino. Because you don't say something, lives are lost. Be more
concerned about blood spilled than maybe calling in something, even anonymously,
that the police can track down and check out.

ERIC BOLLING, CO-HOST, "THE FIVE": So here is -- the left has made it this way.
So you see something, say something, but you better not say it and describe it
in a way that is considered bigoted or racial or you're going to be accused of
being a racist and who knows what the repercussions could be.

These neighbors saw boxes coming to and from this apartment and were afraid to
say something because they were afraid to be seen as Islamaphobic. Yes, it's
becoming dangerous and making the country a lot more dangerous place. And this
is perpetrated because of the left pushing that agenda. You talk about clock
boy. Clock boy suing for $15 million because of the hard time he. He met
President Obama. I've never met President Obama. He met Mark Zuckerberg,
supposed to be Zuckerberg. I've never met Mark Zuckerberg. Should I start making
a clock that looks like a bomb and maybe I can get that opportunity to do it?

HANNITY: And you might get a free education in Qatar at the end of the day, too.

GUILFOYLE: That boy and Bowe Bergdahl, that's who makes it to the White House.

HANNITY: It's kind of scary, right? Good point.

So now the question is, well, what about the president. The president can't say
radical Islam. How do you fight an enemy if you can't say who the enemy is?

GUILFOYLE: He can't say it and neither can Hillary Clinton because she is tied
to his failed foreign policy and abysmal national security. This is really
unbelievably irresponsible for the commander in chief to be unable to articulate
this message. Tone does matter and words do matter. They matter to the American
people, and he should be able to identify them and come up with a strategic plan
to destroy ISIS.

HANNITY: And coming up, we need your help. Tonight's "Question of the Day" is
straight ahead.

HANNITY: And time for our "Question of the Day." So which do you think is a
bigger threat, the weather, climate change, or ISIS? Go to
Facebook.com/SeanHannity, @SeanHannity on Twitter.

By the way, you've been sending in questions all day. Time for our "Ask Sean"
segment.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: My name is Alton (ph). I'm a senior educator Central High
School in Indianapolis, Indiana. And my question for you, Sean, is what should
the president do about the recent up rise of ISIS, political action and military
action wise?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HANNITY: That is a great question especially in light of ISIS being on American
soil. We have 1,000 ongoing probes going on all across the country in all 50
states.

First, you have to identify the enemy. You have to realize radical Islamic
terrorists are at war with us. You have to treat it like a war. And that means
that America is going to have to engage and bomb the living daylights out of
these safe havens where there terrorists are training and where they're
organizing.

The third thing we need to do is we've got to get in there and we've got to get
control of their finances. The best thing we can do is get the oil supplies that
they have in Iraq because this president pulled out too early.

The next thing I would say is I think the most important thing is we've got to
fix our borders. We've got to secure our borders. We've got to fix our broken
immigration system, and that means people with visas coming to visit America as
well. That's only a short list. Thanks for the question.

HANNITY: That's all the time we have left. As always, thanks for being with us
and have a great night.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120401cb.253

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                      Copyright 2015 Fox News Network LLC
                              All Rights Reserved
