
                               1 of 24 DOCUMENTS


                                     MSNBC

                            November 29, 2015 Sunday

                       SHOW: POLITICS NATION 6:00 PM EST

POLITICS NATION for November 29, 2015

BYLINE: Al Sharpton; Joy Reid

GUESTS: Erin McPike; John Nichols, Bill Richardson, Martin Luther King, III,
Spike Lee

SECTION: NEWS; International

LENGTH: 6204  words



HIGHLIGHT: Donald Trump still leads in the Republican presidential candidate
polls despite all of his comments about Muslims and mocking a reporter with
disability. Martin Luther King III talked about the 60th anniversary of the
Montgomery bus boycott. Only Jeb Bush. Ted Cruz and John Kasich spoke after the
Colorado shooting and other remain silent about it. Spike Lee talked about his
new film "Chi-Raq."


(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

REV. AL SHARPTON, MSNBC HOST: The GOP`s freak out over Donald Trump. Just two
months to Iowa, can anyone stop him?

Also, the latest on the Planned Parenthood shooting? Was the suspect driven by
politics?

Plus, tough new questions after the police shooting of Laquan McDonald. We will
look at the state of civil rights in America, 60 years after the Montgomery bus
boycott. Martin Luther King III will join me live.

And Spike Lee is back, making headlines with a new film about gun violence in
Chicago. Spike joins me live here at 30 Rock.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SHARPTON: Good morning.

We start with Donald Trump. And the question now facing Republicans, just over
two months from Iowa, can anyone in the GOP stop him?

This weekend, Trump says he`s rallying a quote "movement," and evoked Richard
Nixon`s famous phrase about a silent majority.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: This is a movement. This is not Trump.
This is not anything. This is a movement. Remember, it is a movement. We used to
say silent majority. It`s not a silent majority, it`s really a noisy majority.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SHARPTON: Once again Trump finds himself in a controversy, this time for
apparently mocking a reporter who has a medical condition.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: Now the poor guy you got to see this guy, I don`t know what I said, I
don`t remember. He`s going I don`t remember. Maybe that`s what I said.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SHARPTON: And once again, Trump is not apologizing. Instead, going on offense,
claiming he wasn`t mocking the reporter.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: Because I express myself very strongly it`s groveling, I`m trying to show
groveling, but all of a sudden I found that I was mocking somebody. I may have
met him, some of the people back there, they reported me every day. I don`t know
who they are. I don`t know what they look like, but I know their name and they
know what I`m talking about. I know their name and some treat me good and some
treat me badly, mostly badly, you know, because they don`t come from where we
come from. But I know their name but I don`t know. This reporter is so happy.
People have heard of him now. Nobody ever heard of the guy.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SHARPTON: Trump has now been first or second in polls for over 130 days. Can
anyone challenge him?

Ted Cruz is making a move. One poll shows him just two points behind Trump in
Iowa. Chris Christie just got an endorsement from a major newspaper in New
Hampshire, but Trump himself might have his eye on Marco Rubio.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: Rubio comes out. He represents for a short period of time the people of
Florida. He has got the worst attendance record in the United States Senate,
doesn`t vote. He is weak on, very weak on illegal immigration, totally in favor
of amnesty, which you can`t do. OK?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SHARPTON: Joining me now is our panel, MSNBC national correspondent Joy Reid,
Reuters political reporter Erin McPike, and "the Nation`s" John Nichols. Thank
you all for being here.

JOY REID, MSNBC NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Thank you, Rev.

ERIN MCPIKE, POLITICAL REPORTER, REUTERS: Thanks.

JOHN NICHOLS, THE NATIONS: Thank you, Reverend.

SHARPTON: Joy, what is the GOP plan to stop Donald Trump?

REID: Well, at the moment, Rev., it appears they didn`t have a plan, right. So
one of the story that came out last weekend, I think it was about Friday, is
that GOP donors are all sort of looking at each other wondering which one of
them is going to pull a trigger on some sort of plan to take down Trump. Now,
there has been a group that has been formed, a 501C3 I believe it is, that is
going to try to run ads against Trump.

But I don`t understand really what ads are going to do at this point. I think
the base of the Republican Party, at least a third of it, is dead set on Donald
Trump. And I don`t really understand what the GOP establishment thinks it is
going to do to stop him.

SHARPTON: You know, Erin, because Trump himself talks about his controversial
statements don`t hurt him, they only help him. Let me show you this comment and
get a response.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: Sometimes I`ll make a statement they`ll say, this is the end. This is the
end! Right? This is the end. It`s finally going to happen. And then my guys walk
into the office, hey, Mr. Trump, our poll numbers have just gone through the
roof. Say what? That`s only happened about four times so far.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SHARPTON: Now, Erin, despite the fact there`s a lot of braggadocio (ph) there,
it`s true he seems to have been able to get helped by controversies, not harmed
by them.

MCPIKE: It`s absolutely true. And part of that is that the Republican base likes
him a lot more than they like or trust the media, so I would agree. He is right.
A lot of times his poll numbers go up.

The other thing I would say here is look for his poll numbers to go up again
next week after thanksgiving, after people have gotten together and talked about
it, because the more and more you hear a number of Republican voters get
together and talk about it, they talk about what it is they like about Donald
Trump. I actually think he is going to go up a little bit more from here.

SHARPTON: John, I mean Joy referred to it, "the Wall Street Journal" has done an
article on it, the big donors are looking for a way to come after him. Is there
a route to stopping Trump sort of just wishing, hoping, praying that he
implodes?

NICHOLS: Well, one thing to understand about Donald Trump is that since he got
into this race with credible but not dominant numbers, he has meticulously taken
down everyone who has gotten in his way. And that`s the other side. The flipside
of this thing is that when somebody comes up as his credible challenger, Trump
turns his energy on that candidate. He did it to Bush, he did it to Scott
Walker. I would argue he did it to Marco Rubio and now he will likely do it with
Cruz. And so, that`s a key part of this whole thing. It isn`t just the
establishment is struggling. It`s this reality that when they find somebody
Trump then focuses on that person and takes them down.

I think the key on this thing is two-fold. Trump is likely to be slowed down
only if you can beat him in Iowa and in New Hampshire. The way to do that is
with different candidates, not with one candidate. And so, in Iowa you look at
Cruz coming up.

Cruz is a very skilled campaigner. He has put a lot of energy into Iowa. He is
credible there. Watch what he does. He is, I think, going to take a lot of Ben
Carson`s support. Build on his own. Potentially come into a lead there.

In New Hampshire, it is much harder, but when you see this endorsement of Chris
Christie today, that`s what that`s about. The idea in New Hampshire has to be to
pull together the mainstream Republicans, those who are, you know, very
conservative but maybe deal in something a little bit closer to the mainstream
America politics than Trump. So what you are going to try to see there is an
attempt to downplay Bush, downplay Kasich, move those numbers over at least in
this case perhaps to Christie, and get one credible contender against him in New
Hampshire.

SHARPTON: But Erin, how do you explain that he has been able to in many ways
bring down Rubio. Now he is working on Cruz. Carson has gone way down, a lot of
that self-inflicted. I mean, he has been able to go from show men to strategist
and using a showmanship to support a strategy as John says.

MCPIKE: Well, that`s right. He has improved as a candidate. I would add that a
little bit to say the he has not yet turned his attention to Cruz. We expect
that. Although, he has been quite kind to Cruz throughout this campaign. They
are on the level on a lot of issues.

He is still focus on Rubio. And I think that remains to be seen where that goes
because Marco Rubio is just beginning a major ad buy. And maybe that will move
numbers. Big advertising buys on television have moved numbers in the past. It
remains to be seen whether it can.

Whether this union leader endorsement of Chris Christie last night, this morning
will do anything to move Chris Christie`s numbers, that`s hard to say. That
paper endorsed Newt Gingrich in 2011 and he did not go on to beat Mitt Romney in
the state of New Hampshire. Right now, Chris Christie is polling quite low at
five to seven percent in New Hampshire. It`s Marco Rubio that the establishment
wants to rally around, but who knows that that will make any difference?

Cruz is quite close to Trump in Iowa but in New Hampshire, it may hurt him. And
I have heard a number of voters say that they do not want to go with the
establishment candidate. They like Trump and Cruz because they are
anti-establishment and they keep saying, well, you know, Marco Rubio used to be
an anti-establishment guy but now he is the establishment. So we don`t want him.

But I think everybody in New Hampshire is so far behind Donald Trump. The idea
that getting behind Chris Christie this late in the game, I don`t know that`s
going to do much good.

SHARPTON: Joy, tomorrow, Donald Trump`s meeting with leading black pastors it`s
billed. Some are saying they are just going to meet, some are saying they are
going to endorse.

Now, aside from the fact of my opinion of Donald Trump and others, the thing
that`s interesting here is that he is going for a block that represents a lot,
if not the majority of black voters. Lot of people don`t understand even in a
transforming time, the majority of black voters attend church. It may not be the
traditional church. It may be the mega church. Is he playing on a weakness that
the Democrats have left an opening who have (INAUDIBLE) with progressive, but
have not dealt with the church, where the vote is?

REID: Yes. And it`s interesting. Because I think you are right in that people do
underestimate the extent to which the pastor, the church is still the probably
the most compelling centrifugal force that guides black voters. That that is
where the biggest black voter-base is, particularly when you are talking about
African-American women.

And so, for Donald Trump to have this meeting, there are only the lead pastor
who organized it, is actually endorsing him. The rest are just taking the
meeting. But the fact that they are willing to take the meeting, some of these
pastors who have known to sort of act on this for Democratic sphere, called the
Republican sphere, means that number one, Democrats have left an opening.

I think you have seen with all of the three major, really two major Democratic
candidates, they are now trying to make up ground with black voters because
there is a sense I think broadly among a lot of black voters that don`t quite
take them for granted.

SHARPTON: Right.

REID: And so, I think any opening that that lead --

SHARPTON: Well, I have been saying to the candidates, and I want to reiterate
that call. They need to come in front of black religious leaders and I think
Trump has on it because they cannot look like they are just, not only taking it
for granted but only playing to one side of a community that may not represent
voters.

Everybody, stay with me. Lots more to come.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SHARPTON: We`ll look at the new debate about defining terrorism in the wake of
the shooting rampage at a Planned Parenthood clinic.

Also, the Montgomery bus boycott 60 years later. I`ll talk about the lessons for
activism today with Martin Luther King III.

Plus Spike Lee stops by to talk about his new film, "Chi-Raq."

Stay with us.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I know that Americans have been
asking each other whether it`s safe here, whether it`s safe to fly or gather. We
are taking every possible step to keep our homeland safe.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SHARPTON: President Obama telling Americans not to panic in the wake of the
Paris terror attacks.

On the campaign trail, Donald Trump has a different message.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: We do have to look at the mosques very carefully. The mosques, a lot of
things are happening in there, folks, a lot of things.

There`s some nastiness, there`s some meanness there. There`s something going on
in the mosques and other places.

People move into a house a block down the road. You know who`s going in. You can
see and you report them to the local police. Everybody`s their own cop in a way.
You got to do it.

Would I approve waterboarding? You bet your (bleep). I would approve it. You bet
your (bleep), in a heartbeat.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SHARPTON: Trump is also indicated he would support a database of Muslims, and
that he would be open to shutting down some mosques. Up to now rival GOP
candidates have been careful in criticizing him.

Joining me now is former ambassador to the United Nations, and former governor
of New Mexico, Bill Richardson.

Governor, thank you for being here.

BILL RICHARDSON, FORMER AMBASSADOR TO UNITED NATIONS: Thank you, Reverend. Nice
to be with you.

SHARPTON: You know, you`ve been in politics a long time. Have you ever seen this
kind of rhetoric on the national level?

RICHARDSON: No, I haven`t seen this rhetoric and I was just in Paris. I got back
last night where the French people have rallied around their leaders. They have
rallied as a community for the victims there. And then to hear this rhetoric on
the right, shut down mosque, don`t allow refugees to come in, data registry, the
silence of the right when it comes to this Planned Parenthood attack in
Colorado. It shows that as a country, we need to come together.

And I applaud the president. I think the president was very right to send this
calming message. He has a bully pulpit. I just traveled extensively through
airports, Reverend. And you know, I`m going to say something good about law
enforcement, about the police, even TSA, everything seemed orderly. Travelers
were upbeat. They were cooperating. I think as a country when you leave --

SHARPTON: But let me ask you this, ambassador, governor, the attitudes that we
are hearing here, how are people responding around the world? I mean, I was in
Paris and South Africa right before the attack, and you got one flavor. How are
we looking post-Paris when you are hearing leading candidate on the Republican
side talking about closing mosques, data bank for Muslims. How is that playing
around the world? You have just come back from Paris.

RICHARDSON: Well, I hear it from diplomats, from friends, from ordinary people,
they are saying what is happening to America, the land of civil liberties, of
the free? Where is this rhetoric coming from?

What I try to say to them is that look, this is Donald Trump and others. This is
maybe 30 percent of the Republican electorate. I try to tell them that a
majority of the American people still have these values of decency, of
democracy.

You know, this Planned Parenthood issue, Reverend, I think this attorney general
is a very good one. What she said was this was not just an attack on Planned
Parenthood. This was a man with a history of domestic violence, animal abuse. He
killed law enforcement official.

SHARPTON: Right.

RICHARDSON: He killed 11 innocent people. You know, I think that`s the kind of
calming positive assessment of where we are.

SHARPTON: I`m going to get into Colorado later in the show, and you`re right.
But let me ask you something. You say that Donald Trump, that maybe 30 percent,
but has his GOP rivals criticized him enough? Have they taken him on? And if
not, why not?

RICHARDSON: Well, they have been silent. They have been silent on Trump. They
were silent on Colorado, on the mosque issue. I think the only ones that have
spoken out like Jeb Bush and others have actually gone down in the polls.

Now, my prediction, I know you had a very distinguished panel earlier, Reverend,
but I think the voters of New Hampshire and Iowa, Iowa is in the primaries, they
have a way of sending messages. This is two months away. I don`t think Trump is
going to win either of those two primaries. I think the accumulation of his
insults, of this rhetoric is eventually going to register at the polls. I think
you are going to see some real upsets. And I think by the middle of the
primaries, I think he will be out as a major candidate. But I have been wrong
before. I have been wrong so far about Trump, but we will see.

SHARPTON: Well, I have to agree. I was in the 2004 primaries and we thought
going in, Howard Dean would win Iowa and it didn`t quite work out that way.

Governor Bill Richardson, thank you for so much being with us this morning.

RICHARDSON: Thank you.

ANNOUNCER: We will be right back with Martin Luther King III only on "Politics
Nation."

SHARPTON: This Tuesday, Americans will mark a milestone in U.S. history. The
60th anniversary of the Montgomery bus boycott.

On December 1st, 1955, Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat to a white man on
a bus. It sparked a city-wide boycott led by a young preacher named Martin
Luther King Jr.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MARTIN LUTHER KING JR., ACTIVIST: Felt all along that we have just cause and
legal excuse for such action. We simply decided to say en masse that we were
tired of being trampled over with iron feet of oppression.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SHARPTON: The boycott lasted over a year and ended with the city losing at the
Supreme Court and integrating all its buses. The legacy of the boycott endures
to this day. But many challenges remain, some old and some new. And as we see
that horrific tragedy like the shooting of Laquan McDonald in Chicago, 16 shots
and 400 days until the police officer who shot him was charged with murder.

Joining me now is Martin Luther King III. Thanks for being here, Martin.

MARTIN LUTHER KING III, CIVIL RIGHT ACTIVIST: Thank you, Rev.

SHARPTON: Martin, you have seen this video of the police shooting in Chicago.
And you and I dealt with videos the last several years from North Charleston to
Gardner in New York. I mean, doesn`t this highlight where we are in this next
phase of civil rights, maybe starting with Trayvon, where all of us have been
involved through until now, is this the next phase coming to having to deal with
the criminal justice issue?

KING: Well certainly the criminal justice issue is one of the top issues that
our nation must address, when we look at the number of African- Americans and
Latinos and Hispanics who describes the prison population. And the fact that in
our communities it`s not just policing, I should say. That is certainly a
significant issue.

But also, just as significant is the fact that unfortunately there is community
violence. Dad would have characterized it and mom as we are still addressing the
issues of the eradication of poverty, racism, militarism and violence. And so, I
don`t know that it is a new face as much as we just still have a lot of work to
do. I think we learned from what we saw in 1955, the endurance that people had
for 381 days, people chose not to ride the buses.

I remember mom saying that on that first day, they looked out of the window.
They were very excited. They had no idea whether the buses is going to be empty.
But the resilience that the people had is just phenomenal.

SHARPTON: Now, how important was that? And I have talked to you about this and
was privileged to talk to your mother about this many times, the significance of
this in launching the national career, if you want to call it a career, or
mission of your father?

KING: Well, it is certainly was quite significant. And as you know, MIA existed
at the time or was created --

SHARPTON: Montgomery Improvement Association. I don`t want people to think
you`re talking about missing in action.

KING: Absolutely. But it also created a climate so that in 1957, the southern
Christian leadership conference could be founded which became the organization
that worked with other organizations to help us get a civil rights act in 1964
and the voting rights act in 1965 and fair housing legislation in 1968. So yes,
that was the pivotal point in terms of the leadership. Certainly the starting
point of leadership of Martin Luther King Jr.

SHARPTON: Now, one of the things that was interesting to me, and I tell this to
a lot of young activists in Mass Action Network and another groups and outside
groups, is that the reason the boycott worked is they were inclusive. They
brought in everybody. And they, as you said, your mother talked about how no one
got on the bus, the real movements bring in a broad tent, not an exclusionary
tent. And your father had to go through a lot of tensions to build even people
that were criticized, called them to establishment, call them too radical on the
other side, but an inclusive movement is the only way you can really make the
real change happen.

KING: You are absolutely right, Rev. And of course, that I think that`s what we
see. I think we -- even as it relates to Black Lives Matter, it`s not just black
young people marching. They are blacks, they are whites, there are others who
are marching. And it has to be an inclusive movement, if we want to maximize
success.

We will see -- and dad would have called it I guess coalition building. And mom
engaged in coalition building. So you had -- I mean we always know the union
supported the movement. We know the Jewish community supported the movement. We
know that the Greek orthodox committee came and supported the movement. We know
that Catholics supported the movement, over time. It did not start with each of
those groups initially. But over time all of those groups came to the table. And
America is a better America because women and men and folks from all walks of
life came together.

And that`s what we need today when we talk about the concept of injustice.
Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. Dad used to say I can`t be
what I ought to be until you are what you ought to be because our destinies are
tied together.

SHARPTON: Martin Luther King III, thank you so much for being here with us this
Sunday before this important anniversary.

KING: Thank you, Rev.

ANNOUNCER: You are watching "Politics Nation" with Al Sharpton, only on MSNBC.

SHARPTON: The suspect at the deadly shooting rampage at a Planned Parenthood
clinic in Colorado is due in court tomorrow. While investigators are still
trying to confirm a motive, sources say Robert Dear said quote "no more baby
parts." After his arrest, he made those statements. He also made comments about
the government and about President Obama.

Attorney General Loretta Lynch called it quote "a crime against women." And the
justice department is reviewing whether Dear should be charged with a hate crime
or with violating a federal law that protection abortion clinics. The survivors
were stunned.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

OZY LICANO, COLORADO SHOOTING WITNESS: I could see him aiming and I was trying
move. It was horrible. I`m angry. You know? I just don`t know what would possess
somebody to be that pad to other people that he didn`t even know.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SHARPTON: And now it`s a political issue as well. All three democratic
presidential candidates have denounced the shooting. But most of the Republicans
have been slow to respond.

Jeb Bush said there was no acceptable explanation for this violence.

Ted Cruz and John Kasich called the shooting quote "tragic."

Let`s bring back our panel, Joy Reid, Erin McPike and John Nichols.

John, what is your take on the response from the Republicans?

NICHOLS: It has been deafening. Deafening silence. And it is true that Ted Cruz
did tweet something and so has John Kasich. And credit to them. But it is
striking to me that in the immediate aftermath of this shooting, this shooting
that took the lives of three people including a police officer, who is a
co-pastor of his church, you did not see Republican contenders who have been so
outspoken, who have always had something to say about Planned Parenthood and
about a host of other issues step up. They did not have to change their
positions. They did not have to, you know, say something that would satisfy, you
know, supporters of abortion rights or reproductive health, but they could have
said this is jarring, this is troubling. This is a good point at which to think
about how we talk about issues, to think about how we frame these debates.

And I will just remind you, Reverend, we have a great history in this country of
candidates being tested in moments like this. You will recall in 1968 just
hours, minutes really shortly after Martin Luther King Jr. was shot, Bobby
Kennedy standing in an inner city speaking those beautiful words. I don`t expect
any candidate to hit that mark. But I do expect that in a moment of national
trauma, candidates would speak up and at least try to heal, try to keep people
talking.

SHARPTON: You raise an excellent point there, John. Because Joy, I remember all
of the furor when a kid brought a homemade clock to school in Texas, and they
thought it was a bomb, and it was huge furor, and it was not a bomb.

REID: Right.

SHARPTON: And if you listened to the relative of silence almost especially from
the candidates, but on the right in general, on a man that went in a Planned
Parenthood office and kills three people, including a police officer.

REID: That`s right. And this is the same right wing that has been sort of
baiting the African-American community and claiming the demands for justice,
demands for better policing --

SHARPTON: Rhetoric, blaming everybody from the president to me to young
activists, I mean.

REID: Exactly. And that they are endangering the lives of police officers.

But you know, Republicans conservatives are in a bind here. They are in this
really fractious race for the Republican nomination in which one-third of the
base is heavily evangelical. They are very dependent on evangelical voters who
are listening for any signs of (INAUDIBLE) on the issue of abortion. And so,
they are locked in this kind of situation where they can`t be too sympathetic.

But you know, the thing is, if you were to substitute the shooter, if he were
Muslim or if he were a Mexican national, how different the rhetoric would be on
the right, right now. You really understand where the Republican Party and the
conservative movement is today.

SHARPTON: But you know, Erin, that brings us to the fight and analysis between
domestic terrorism and Islamic terror. For example, the death toll for terror
attacks in the United States since September 11th has 48 people killed
non-Muslim extremism, and jihadist extremism 26 killed. So the non- Muslim
extremism has really caused more death, all are who are horrific, all are wrong,
all must be dealt with, but it doesn`t seem like we`re getting the equal kind of
attention and outrage from elements of the right.

MCPIKE: That`s right. And look, the Republicans, all of them, were quick to jump
on the Paris attacks in the aftermath of that to talk about a number of issues
related to terrorism on an international level. And even Marco Rubio stoking
fear about the fact that it could happen here.

I think in this particular case, this may not be about Planned Parenthood. I
mean, you know, we could read a lot into the silence from these Republican
candidates. I think it may be a little bit more about the gun violence in
America piece of it, not where the shooting happened, but that Republican
candidates don`t have anything good to say. And in fact, politicians of all
stripes don`t have a great answer about some of these mass shootings on American
soil, what they mean, and what to do about them.

I think maybe the Republican candidates could have done a little bit better to
talk about this, condemn the violence that happened. We did see Marco Rubio
tweet about a political murder in Venezuela, but he didn`t talk about this. But
I think the larger issue here is that they just don`t know what to do about this
particular issue.

SHARPTON: But Joy, isn`t it a fact it`s a critical issue we are facing? A
9-year-old kid killed in Chicago, we saw finally two arrests on that just
Wednesday. Isn`t it a fact, if you`re running for president, you need to deal
with how you keel with the mass shootings?

REID: No, absolutely. And you have in the case of this person, I think we should
be calling a domestic terrorist because it does appears there was somewhat
political motive, something to do with Planned Parenthood.

But in this case, this person had a background that included domestic violence,
it included aggravating stalking, peeping tom charges, he had violence in his
background and he was still able to legally obtain a weapon of war. That is an
issue and it should be discussed in the presidential campaign.

SHARPTON: Joy Reid, Erin McPike and John Nichols, thank you. And enjoy the rest
of your day.

REID: Thank you.

MCPIKE: Thank you.

SHARPTON: Up next, the new film from Spike Lee that has everybody talking, it`s
called "Chi-Raq" and it addresses one of the biggest problems in America today.
Spike joins me live here in the studio, next.

SHARPTON: The claimed filmmaker Spike Lee is back. He is back with a new movie
that tackles one of the most serious problems in America today -- gun violence.
It`s the satire called "Chi-Raq" based on an ancient Greek play updated to
modern day Chicago. It is already generating lots of debate. Here is part of the
new trailer.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: In Chicago, Illinois, have surpassed the death toll of
American Special Forces in Iraq.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Welcome to Chi-Raq.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Land of pain, misery and strive.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Everybody here got a man, banging and slanging and fighting
for the slag risking that long dip to the cadaver bag.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: All for the bang, bang.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Make sure these fools put down these guns.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you want justice?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SHARPTON: Joining me now is the man himself, Spike Lee.

Good to see you, Spike.

SPIKE LEE, DIRECTOR: Brooklyn`s in the house.

SHARPTON: We should am. And it is not unusual, you and I together Sunday
morning?

But "Chi-Raq," it is controversial when you are calling it "Chi-Raq." Why name
"Chi-Raq?"

LEE: Well, number one, I didn`t come with that term. The term came up by a local
Chicago rapper because they felt that the (INAUDIBLE) of Chicago was more
dangerous that Iraq. So that not come from me. And the mayor had a problem with
that too, the mayor Rahm Emanuel.

SHARPTON: Well, it is problems with the mayor.

LEE: He has more problem than that.

SHARPTON: The whole satire, though, was built on an old Greek. And it`s funny
because you talk about Brooklyn, when I was in high school I read the story of
"Le Sister" -- "Lastrada." We would Brooklynize it "Le Sister."

(CROSSTALK)

LEE: Brooklynese.

SHARPTON: Right.

LEE: But it was written in 411 B.C. by the Greek played with Aristophanes. And
in this play, (INAUDIBLE) forms a movement. She is tired of the war. And gets --
women today are saying we are going to withhold sex from our boyfriends, from
our husbands until men put down their guns. So to that premise, the sex strike,
I mean, took it to the south side of Chicago and temporary today where it`s off
the hook.

SHARPTON: So are people saying that you shouldn`t have made it sapphire or
there`s too much sex in it or suggestions or is it they don`t want to deal with
--

LEE: Take your pick, Rev.

SHARPTON: OK.

LEE: But here is a thing, though. This many different ways to tell a story, and
the co-writer, (INAUDIBLE) and I felt that the satire used way back in 4 1 B.C.
is still the way to tell a story. Also, satire allows you to add humor to it,
not comedy but humor and still have to deal with a very serious subject matter.

SHARPTON: Now, I see you back working with Samuel Jackson.

LEE: Yes.

SHARPTON: I see --

LEE: (INAUDIBLE).

SHARPTON: Yes. And --

LEE: Wesley Snipes.

SHARPTON: Wesley Snipes. So you have got a lot of stars lined up.

LEE: Jennifer Hudson, David Chappell, Nick Cannon as greatness, a newcomer
Tianna Paris, Angela Basset returns, but last time worked with Malcolm X.

SHARPTON: Right.

LEE: She played the late great doctor (INAUDIBLE).

SHARPTON: I had a cameo with that.

LEE: You did. John Cusack, (INAUDIBLE), so we have a really great, great cast.
And we got, we are doing this film in Chicago, it was really a great shooting.
We were in the hood, so. But during that time, Rev., our first day of shooting,
filming was June 1st. Our last day was July 9th. During that time, 331 people
were wounded and shot, 65 got murdered just during the production.

SHARPTON: And that`s the real issue here is that the amount of murders - I mean,
I took an apartment, we go out there once a month with Reverend Hatch and deal
with it. We just saw the arrest of two men around executing a 9- year-old. The
real point is you are using sapphire to bring out the message.

LEE: That`s the message. I think that all the other stuff, Rev., is a
distraction. The focus - the number one goal, Rev., of the film was to save
lives. I will go to my grave thinking that art could change the world. And that
was the goal of this film. We have to save lives. It comes out December 4th. And
I hope that some of the young brothers see this film and think about what they
are doing.

SHARPTON: So it comes out this Friday, December 4th.

LEE: This Friday, yes.

SHARPTON: I know you are premiering it Tuesday in New York. And it`s
interesting. You say you`re not going to have an after party. You are going to
have me and others march with you against violence.

LEE: Yes. We have a march against violence. And then we should really to tie in
Montgomery and Rosa Parks. Let`s tie that in, Rev.

SHARPTON: Now, talking about the Montgomery anniversary which the day of the
premiere. We also see in Chicago on the other side, this 13 months that it took
to charge this police officer in what was blatant. So you got also to deal with
the fact that we need law enforcement to fight crime, but they undercut their
credibility when they don`t deal with crimes in their own ranks.

LEE: And so, this is what happens when the community sees something like that,
they are going to be less apt to come forward and cooperate with the police when
they see this stuff, when the guy was shot down like a dog. So it`s for both
sides.

SHARPTON: Stay with me. We`ll have more with Spike Lee after the break. Don`t go
anywhere.

SHARPTON: We are back with the one and only Spike Lee, whose new film is
"Chi-Raq." It is about gun violence in Chicago and opens in theaters this
Friday.

Spike, let me bring you somewhere else. You got an honorary Oscar and all of
your home boys like we are proud.

LEE: Denzel Washington, Samuel Jackson and Wesley Snipes.

SHARPTON: They were there to make the presentation. But you used it as an
opportunity to address the lack of diversity in Hollywood. I mean, in true
Brooklyn style, you didn`t take the bow and the gracious, you know, I thank my
mom and dad. You used it to make a statement. Tell us about it.

LEE: Well, all the people who were there, the powers that be and I made the
statement that it`s easier for a black person in the United States of America to
be president of this country than to be the president of a studio or a network.

SHARPTON: Wow. One of the things that --

LEE: They weren`t expecting that.

SHARPTON: One of the things I`m sure, because we had the controversy with Sony
pictures and all of that, but no real follow-up, and that certainly is something
they don`t talk a lot about in this industry. And you and I about two or three
years apart trying to bring on the next generation, me in civil rights, you in
art. Who do you see in promise in terms of directing and film making to your
level?

LEE: Well it`s not my level. It`s I went to see this film "Creed" by a great
young director Ryan Kugler, also directed that film "fruit vale station." So
this young brother coming up who came out of film school. So a lot of promise
for him. I mean, his first two films, "Fruitville" and then "Creed." I think it
made $40 million the first two days, so watch out for him.

SHARPTON: So how does that generation behind us deal with opening up Hollywood
more as you`ve laid down the gauntlet at the honorary Oscars?

LEE: See, this is not - and if this was the NFL, we would have the Rooney rule.
You can`t do that. So my thing is this, Rev. We have people in front of the
camera, behind the camera, but we are not in the room. We don`t have a green
light vote. That is where they decide what we are making, what we are not. And
we don`t, we`re not positioned on -- I don`t know of any African-American, I
mean, to get animation, but where we have a green light vote, we have a vote to
say we`re making this or not making this.

SHARPTON: Let me get back to "Chi-Raq" and we have got to put some legs behind
the whole move about dealing with gun violence and we are dealing with
accountability and law enforcement at the same time.

LEE: Here`s the thing. I know we have to end but why does it have to be one or
another? We can have Black Lives Matter and still be self-critical about what`s
happening. It`s not one or the other.

SHARPTON: It is the same thing.

LEE: It is the same thing.

SHARPTON: I`m going to have to leave it there.

Spike Lee, thank you so much for being here this morning. And again, the new
film is "Chi-Raq." It opens this Friday.

That does it for me. Thanks for watching. I`ll see you back here next Sunday
morning.

THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE
UPDATED.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 112901cb.472

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SHOW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript

                       Copyright 2015 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              Copyright 2015 MSNBC


                               2 of 24 DOCUMENTS


                                     MSNBC

                            November 29, 2015 Sunday

                    SHOW: UP with STEVE KORNACKI 8:00 AM EST

UP for November 29, 2015

BYLINE: Richard Lui, Leanne Gregg, Jim Cavanaugh, Gabe Gutierrez

GUESTS: Jess McIntosh, Jeanne Zaino, Basil Smickle, Joe Watkins, Suhail Khan,
Saba Ahmed, Harry Carson

SECTION: NEWS, DOMESTIC

LENGTH: 7249  words



HIGHLIGHT: President Obama heads to Paris. That city, once again, on the world`s
stage. This time in an effort to save the planet. News on the Planned Parenthood
shooting. Frank Gifford`s family announces the former NFL player suffered from
CTE.


RICHARD LUI, MSNBC ANCHOR: The kind of news that could shake up the race for the
Republican nomination. Good morning I`m Richard Lui. Thanks for getting up with
us this Sunday morning. In Colorado, what the suspect in Friday`s shooting has
told investigators. Plus, we`ll tell you what Planned Parenthood says leads to
this kind of violence.

President Obama heads to Paris. That city, once again, on the world`s stage.
This time in an effort to save the planet. Also, it`s the first Sunday game day
for the NFL since Frank Gifford`s family announced he suffered from a concussion
related illness, another Giants Hall of Famer will be along here with us to talk
about that.

In politics, Donald Trump is speaking out this hour about his claim that he
witnessed American Muslims cheering in the aftermath of the September 11th
attacks. We`ll be joined by two prominent Republican Muslims to find out how
they are dealing with all of that rhetoric. And Chris Christie picks up a huge
endorsement in New Hampshire overnight. Could it be enough to turn the race
around for him and for the rest of them? But first, we want to take you straight
to Paris as we look at the Place de la Republique where we have seen hundreds,
if not thousands after the Paris attacks gathered. Now, they are there in
advance of the climate change climate summit discussions. And they are not in
support of what may or may happen. Some in support of what has been - going to
be proposed at those discussions as they kick off tomorrow. We`ll be going live
to Paris very shortly, 3:00 in the afternoon local time in Paris, France.

But we are going to start this hour in Colorado Springs where almost two days
after three people were killed in a shooting at a Planned Parenthood clinic
there, we have new information about the suspected gunman, and what he said to
police after he was taken into custody. Law enforcement sources telling NBC News
that when Robert Dear was taken in for questioning he said "No more baby parts,"
in an apparent reference to Planned Parenthood, but authorities stressed that
the suspect said many things to law enforcement and that the motive still cannot
be determined. The "Colorado Gazette" reporting this morning that most recently,
the suspect lived as a recluse in the town of Hartsell, in a travel trailer with
a woman and at least two dogs, about 65 miles west of Colorado Springs.
Meanwhile, a vigil was held last night on the University of Colorado at Colorado
Springs campus, as members of the community remembered Officer Garrett Swasey,
who was killed in that attack.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

STEPHANIE HANENBERG, EXEC. DIR. HEALTH SERVICES, UCCS: He was just an amazing
man that everybody loved to have here. He will be missed.

CHIEF BRIAN MCPIKE, UCCS POLICE DEPARTMENT: His wife is so proud of her husband.
Yes. She knew what he loved to do, and she knew the risks.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

LUI: Joining me now from Colorado Springs is NBC`s Leanne Gregg. And now,
another day has passed. We are on a Sunday, normally a day of worship there in
Colorado Springs and many remembering the officer who lost his life.

LEANNE GREGG, COLORADO SPRINGS, CO: That`s right. They certainly are. Yesterday,
several vigils were held and today the investigation is continuing. They`re
still looking into Dear`s past, they`re talking with people who knew him and
they are going through mounds of evidence that still needs to be processed. On
Saturday, the U.S. attorney general said that the federal government would
provide any assistance it could in this investigation, and meanwhile the
community does continue to mourn. One of those vigils held last night was in
honor of Officer Garrett Swasey, killed in the attack. He was described as a
kind and a selfless man, a good police officer, a father of two. He also was a
champion ice skater. He was close friends and grew up with former Olympic skater
Nancy Kerrigan who said he was one of her best friends.

NANCY KERRIGAN, OLYMPIC FIGURE SKATER: They are like family, truly instrumental
in my life and in my growing up as a person and in my career. David Swasey
picked me up every day in high school, whether Garrett was sick or well, coming
with us or not he`d still pick me up and drove me to the rink every day.

GREGG: David Swasey was Garrett`s father. We still don`t know anything about the
other two people who were killed in the attack. Their identities won`t be
revealed until after the autopsies are finished, that possibly will happen
tomorrow. Richard?

LUI: Leanne Gregg, NBC`s Leanne Gregg. Thank you so much for that live report in
Colorado Springs.

Let`s bring in Jim Cavanaugh, MSNBC law enforcement analyst and retired ATF
special agent. Jim, you`ve been watching this since Friday, you were reporting
on this, giving us your perspective on Friday on this very issue. We`re now
several days past. What is your thought here? You know, officials being somewhat
careful on motive, but we have the suspect`s mention of body parts as I was just
mentioning the quote that we`re hearing from sources. What do you make of what
that might mean?

JIM CAVANAUGH, MSNBC LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: Well, I think the motive is really
getting clearer by the minute and, you know, targeting we always use in
determining motive and when we look at the motives of violent crime, you know,
power, greed, revenge, hate and escape, this guy is not robbing the Planned
Parenthood, he`s shooting everybody at the Planned Parenthood. He has no revenge
motive that we know about, he didn`t work there, he wasn`t fired from there.
This is a power motive. He wants to impart his view, his will on the people
running the Planned Parenthood or people like them that provide abortion
services to women. It`s like a terror motive. Terrorists use a power motive.
They want to impart their will on you, they want to control you. And I don`t
think that`s going to change much, Richard, his comments of the baby parts is
indicative of what`s in his mind. What - authorities also have to be cautious
because, you know, they have a criminal case and they can`t say something that
might change and they have defense attorneys to deal with, but it`s pretty
obvious that this is flushing out to be a motive where he attacked the clinic
because they provide abortion services.

LUI: I want to get your thought on this coming from the "Colorado Spring
Gazette" not confirmed by NBC News as of yet. They are saying that the suspect
solitary, as you heard, lived in a remote area, passed out anti- Obama pamphlets
and registered as an unaffiliated female. All of this, of course, preliminary
here. What does that tell you about what you might be looking forward to try to
put this all together?

CAVANAUGH: That he pays attention to current events, to politics that he`s
reading newspapers or on the web watching television. He`s paying attention to
those things and those things are affecting him and he decides that he`s going
to act it out in a violent way. He didn`t have a violent criminal record. He`s
not a convicted felon, and he apparently doesn`t have a mental record of being
treated for mental illness. So, there`s, you know, we can`t just always say
mental illness to excuse violent murder. I mean he murdered a police officer
from the University of Colorado, he murdered two other people who were at the
clinic.

There`s always a little underlying and some psychopathy probably in there, the
doctors will have to tell us, but it`s also a vicious, violent crime with a
power motive most likely to attack the clinic that provided the services to
women and we`ve seen that, Richard, in America unfortunately for 45 years,
bombings, arsons, murders in doctor`s clinics and I personally have worked many
of them, so it`s not a new thread of violence in America.

LUI: Jim, thank you so much for joining us this morning. MSNBC law enforcement
analyst Jim Cavanaugh. Thank you.

CAVANAUGH: Thank you, Richard.

LUI: Now, the motive of the Planned Parenthood clinic shooter not necessarily
perfectly clear as Jim Cavanaugh was telling us. It`s clear Planned Parenthood
has been under intense scrutiny, both in Washington and on the campaign trail as
well. This summer, the anti-abortion group, Center for Medical Progress released
several controversial videos, which made it seem as though Planned Parenthood
officials were selling fetal tissue for profit. Planned Parenthood maintains the
videos were "deceptively and misleadingly edited." Republican presidential
candidates boosted by the outrage over those videos regularly deride Planned
Parenthood and the services the organization provides. And Congress opened an
investigation into that matter, leading to nearly four hours of testimony by
Planned Parenthood President Cecil Richards. And the congressional push to
defund the organization as well. The investigation found no evidence of
wrongdoing.

Now, with the organization under verbal attack in Washington in recent months,
investigators are looking into the strong possibility the clinic was
specifically targeted. Vicki Cowart, president and CEO of Planned Parenthood
Rocky Mountains addressed the recent violence yesterday in an interview with
NBC`s Miguel Almaguer.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

VICKI COWART, PLANNED PARENTHOOD ROCKY MOUNTAINS: Here`s a hate speech going on
in our country right now that could be causing more violence than we might
otherwise see.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

LUI: Joining me now from Washington is Jess McIntosh, vice president of
communications at Emily`s. Thanks for joining us. You know, according to Mother
Jones since those videos released there have been at least four suspected arsons
as well as at least according to what we`ve seen five cases of vandalism
targeting abortion clinics around the country. Why are we seeing this?

JESS MCINTOSH, EMILY`S UGT: I mean the abortion clinics and women`s health
clinics in general have been under attack for quite some time. It`s rare that we
see an actual murder. It`s been about six years since that`s happened, but we
have seen dramatic uptick in arsons and vandalism and acid attacks in attempted
bombings. I think that the videos themselves were a form of attack on one
woman`s health clinic, it was trespassing, it was severe violation of patient
privacy. The things that they were filming without women`s consent were just
really quite appalling and it`s not just Planned Parenthood that maintains the
videos were selectively and deceptively edited. Their own filmmaker who said
that the videos had been selectively edited, they suggested some scenes were
taking place inside Planned Parenthoods that had nothing to do with Planned
Parenthood. They laid over voice overs to make it seem like they were describing
something that wasn`t happening, they cut things out and said that they had been
in there all along. But what`s the most disturbing is in the wake of these
videos, Republican presidential candidates have jumped all over them. We have
seen Congress spent taxpayer money investigating videos that were just flat out
lies and perpetuating this really dangerous overheated rhetoric about what it is
that Planned Parenthood does, which is provide health care to millions of
American women.

LUI: Jess, when you look at what was said by Jim Cavanaugh just moments ago
about this being a power play what is your thought about that?

MCINTOSH: I think that made a lot of sense. You know, obviously, I don`t want to
rush to ascribe motive to something where I`m certainly not on the ground or
knowing anything, but there does seem to be a real desire to control women`s
ability to make these decisions for themselves, and more often that happens on
the legislative level and we`re not talking about anything physically violent,
but all over the country, we are seeing people chip away at women`s ability to
have safe legal abortion care, whether it`s in Texas, where they`re attempting
to close down just about every abortion clinic available to Texas women to
Congress, where Mitch McConnell promises to put defunding Planned Parenthood in
the very next Obamacare repeal bill right after the Thanksgiving holiday. We`re
seeing this all over where there is an attempt to make it much more difficult
for women to access what is a right for them to have abortion care. And women
are - I mean seven in ten want to keep Roe v. Wade exactly as it is. This is not
actually a controversial issue among the majority of American, women American
voters. It just seems to be in our political system.

LUI: Jess McIntosh, thank you so much, from Emily`s List.

MCINTOSH: Thanks.

LUI: We take it back to Paris, the story we are watching there. Some of the live
pictures here as folks gather there at Place de la Republique. It was a key core
during the post-Paris attacks of gathering - remembrances. Now, they are
gathering to either support or not support what will be happening as the
discussion of climate change is had by 140 world leaders, including President
Obama. NBC News` Gabe Gutierrez is live in Paris there at - watching what is
going to be happening. What will be discussed, Gabe?

GABE GUTIERREZ, NBC NEWS: High there, Richard. Good afternoon from Paris. We`re
here at the Arch de Triumph. And not far from us, the (INAUDIBLE) and Place de
la Republique, as you mentioned. Tear gas has been volleyed, and protesters have
gotten into some scuffles with police. Now, as you know, France is under a state
of emergency and public demonstrations are banned. Earlier this morning, we were
at the Place de la Republique. And climate change activists had laid down
thousands of shoes to protest what they saw as their voices being silenced in a
way. They said that the world needed to pay attention to climate change. There
were some, though, that felt that the state of emergency was appropriate and for
their own safety the public demonstrations should not be allowed. This is a
massive climate conference. As you mentioned, 140 heads of state are expected,
tens of thousands of people, highways will be shut down here in Paris, public
transportation also will be limited, but as you mentioned, Richard, right now a
situation is unfolding there at the Place de la Republique just to our East.
There has been tear gas, no word on any injuries right now, and no word on
exactly what sparked the confrontation with police.

We know that the security has been ramping up here in Paris over the last few
days. Since the beginning of November 120,000 troops and police officers have
been deployed throughout the country and for this climate conference, 2800 or so
were going to be at the site. Now, this demonstration is developing in Paris.
The actual climate conference will be just to the north of Paris. But as you can
see, Richard, this is a developing situation and climate change activists, some
of them, not happy with the fact that they were not allowed to protest. Now, in
the last few hour as well, there has been - some that formed the human chain,
but up until the last hour or so, there hadn`t been any major confrontation with
police. Again, we are still waiting to see how this situation unfolds. Richard,
back to you.

LUI: Very busy month so far there in Paris. Gabe Gutierrez live for us, thank
you so much.

I want to turn to our panel, the executive director of the New York State
Democratic Party Basil Smickle Jr., Republican strategist and former White House
aide to President George H.W. Bush Joe Watkins and political scientist NYE
professor Jeannie Zaino.

So, the president, there a couple of things happening right now. First of all,
the post Paris attacks, have to address that certainly and then second of all a
very large objective for the president in terms of climate change. How does he
balance the two of those?

BASIL SMICKLE JR.: Well, I think what`s interesting is that there have been
scholars who have said all along that climate change impacts national security
and it impacts - it impacts terror. And I think bringing those two together in
Paris at this summit, the president`s taking it from sort of a top-down approach
and going to ground and saying look, we need to have a real honest discussion
about climate change and its impact on the security of all of our countries and
I hope that message sticks, but I know he`s been having it in his conversation
with world leaders.

LUI: And the U.N. secretary-general said the very same thing, when you look at
climate change you have to consider all of these other spheres. And so, Joe, the
question might be, what is the win for the president?

REV. JOE WATKINS, REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST: Well, the win is doing what`s best for
the United States and what`s best for the world and how do you do that? I mean
we`ve got so many issues at play here. I mean you just have the incident a
couple of weeks ago or a few days ago where the Turkey - Turkey shot down a
Russian plane, a Russian jet. You had the incident, of course, the terrorist
incident in Paris which still has got that city in its grips. I was actually
there the day it happened with my wife, we were there on vacation in Paris, and
so we know what it was like for people in that part of the world, that country.
But ...

LUI: Right, and we watch it from the outside, but when you`re there on the
ground here, Jeannie, and all 140 some-odd leaders are going to be there, they
are going to see it front and center, it`s going to take away or bifurcate some
of the energy that at least was leading -- this was long planned, the big debate
about whether to continue this or not is going to pull away from that one of the
objectives from the president, $100 billion a year for some countries who cannot
afford climate change issues. For the president here then, what is it that he`ll
be able to ask for that will be a win? Because the $100 billion doesn`t seem
like it`s possible especially when you look at what`s happening on the streets
here.

JEANNIE ZAINO, POLITICAL STRATEGIST: Yeah. And I think what we`re seeing, is
we`re seeing the repercussions of having this terrorist attack and as you
mentioned, this climate change talks which have been planned for a very long
time and enormous part of the president`s legacy. This is something that
President Obama has put a lot of stock in, didn`t talk about it necessarily in
2012 like many Democrats thought he should have. But it has been the focus of
his second term, he would like nothing more than to come out of this with being
the first president of the United States to seriously address climate change,
because it hasn`t happened yet, and yet with the terrorist attack hanging over
to him to Basil`s point, let`s not forget, a few weeks ago Bernie Sanders tied
terrorism to climate change and was laughed off the stage by many Republicans.
So, that`s going to be a hard needle, I think, for the president to thread and
you are going to have very serious protesters there who feel like they`re being
shut down for security reasons and unable to talk about issues they care about.

So, I think this is a very hard needle for the president to thread at this
point.

LUI: With all of that, and then the president having to communicate not only to
the 140 leaders, but also to the world and then to the United States and the
electorate and those in the House, right, and those who lead the states, and who
have to ratify these as they go forward. As, you know, I think there`s a couple
dozen states that are suing the president right now. So, we`re not going to
follow some of your initial climate change moves.

WATKINS: He has got a whole host of things on his plate right now. He has got to
figure out when he gets back to the States what is most important. So, you can`t
give equal weight to everything. So, he has got to consider the fact that you`ve
got state pushback on whether or not to allow refugees to come into their states
and that`s a huge issue for him and then you`ve got - you`ve got 80 huge issues.

(LAUGHTER)

WATKINS: I mean where does this ball in terms of the huge issues. And he`s got -
there`s a national election going on here in the United States, and we`ve got
these sad issues with gunmen killing people.

LUI: But Joe, you know, what he does have as leader, if you will, of the "free
world" as well as leader of a country that leads on climate change in some
spaces. So does that not help him?

SMICKLE: Well, I think Secretary Kerry going back to your original question has
also questioned the legality of some of what`s being decided in Paris, and
recognizes how difficult it`s going to be to come back to the United States and
try to get the states on board, but the reality is that I think the president
going to Jeannie`s point as well, and to Joe`s point, that of the issues that he
has to tackle this is going to define his legacy and I think he`s in a position
right now to go to Republicans and say, I dare you to tell me that I`m wrong,
especially if you can combine as he`s going to do, I imagine, the broader
concept, concerns about terrorism.

LUI: Basil, I hate to interrupt you here, but we can see these live pictures as
there`s activity there on Place de la Republique. It`s a busy afternoon there,
but it`s also a busy morning here, in the United States. We`re going to turn
after the break to the race for the president. It is 9:00 a.m. in the East, 9:20
or so and what`s happened overnight is the development of Chris Christie. But we
also have, of course, Ben Carson spending his Thanksgiving weekend meeting with
Syrian refugees in Jordan. What he is saying now about the trip and the people
he met. Donald Trump is also speaking out this hour about his claim he witnessed
American Muslims cheering as the Twin Towers fell and as I was mentioning, Chris
Christie getting a big political endorsement. Of all this together, could it
shake up the rest of the field as we move towards February?

LUI: Busy afternoon in Paris, 3:23 in the afternoon, ahead of the climate
discussions with over 100 world leaders we take you there right now, protesters
in the streets ahead of those talks, public demonstrations. The state remains in
a state of emergency, the city rather, in the wake of the terror attacks two
weeks ago, but that means no public demonstrations are allowed, so that`s the
conflict. Police have engaged with protesters throwing stun grenades, as you see
here. We`ll continue to watch what is happening. We saw a bit of a scrum about
ten minutes ago before we went to break, but that will be happening. We will
watch that for you here on MSNBC.

We`re going to get to what`s also developing in terms of a very busy morning in
the United States when it comes to politics, on the campaign trail. We`ll have
more later on new comments this hour from Donald Trump and Ben Carson about the
things they`ve said in the wake of the Paris terrorist attacks and New
Hampshire, though, this morning, this is what I want to tell you about, the
biggest political endorsement of the Republican season on the front page of this
morning`s "Manchester Union Leader" The big winner, you see the picture of them
on the left of that coveted endorsement. New Jersey Governor Chris Christie. The
Manchester newspaper writing "As a U.S. attorney and then a big state governor,
he is the one candidate who has the range and type of experience the nation
desperately needs." To our panel on this, so he has not done well in the polls
there. Does this surprise you?

WATKINS: Well, you can`t - polls are sometime deceptive.

LUI: Yes.

WATKINS: Because remember, nobody saw Santorum coming back in 2012 and then
suddenly he gets to Iowa and just blows everybody away in the Iowa caucus. The
same thing is true in New Hampshire. So, you don`t really know until you know.
Having ground game really matters and what we don`t know is how good the ground
game is with the various candidates. But this is a huge plus for Chris Christie.
This really puts him on the map now as a candidate. Because if he can win New
Hampshire, it`s a whole different ball game.

ZAINO: Yeah, I also think that we have to be hesitant. Endorsements sometimes,
especially in the very independently minded New Hampshire population, they`re
not likely to follow necessarily this endorsement, so I think it gives him
needed headlines and I think it`s important for that, but I`m not sure it`s
going to translate into votes necessarily.

LUI: And it isn`t - a recent "Boston Globe"/Suffolk poll shows that he was way
behind, 22 versus 4, I believe, percentage points. Get a little bit of a bump,
perhaps. But will it last? I guess it`s what ...

SMICKLE: It won`t last that long. But look, he`s a northeastern Republican. It`s
sort of the hometown, the son of the northeast, so to speak. So, if they`re
going to go with someone he`s the probably the most likely person to go with,
because he`s - I would imagine a bit more moderate than the rest of the
Republicans there.

LUI: He is a Republican governor of a blue state.

SMICKLE: Right. Right. And that`s exactly right. And so, I don`t see this as - I
don`t see this as earth shattering, but it does give him legs.

LUI: So, let`s throw this and the Paris attacks, the move for international and
domestic security, also, you know, him working very hard to get that traction,
that part of, you know, tough guy. Does this actually have a halo effect in
other states outside of New Hampshire that can he build on?

WATKINS: But we`ll see. You know, you have to have money to have organization,
so it takes money. I mean anybody thinks that you can just get it because you
get an endorsement is fooling themselves. I mean you have got to have money,
because you have to pay people, you have to have staff on the ground in every
one of these states --

LUI: OK, so this turns into money?

WATKINS: Well, hopefully. That`s what you use this for, if you`re smart. And
he`s a smart guy. "I`ve gotten two e-mails already this morning saying that he
has gotten the endorsement of the New Hampshire union leader. You send that
around to every giver. You say, you know what, we`ve changed the game, we are
gaining traction, we have a shot to win New Hampshire and suddenly you attract
money.

ZAINO: But to your - do you think it helps that the issue has turned to
terrorism for somebody like Chris Christie because that`s something where he`s
stronger on than, say, a Donald Trump or Ben Carson, certainly?

LUI: We`ll get more of this ...

WATKINS: It brings up more that he hugged the president.

(LAUGHTER)

LUI: Hugged the president. We`ll have more on this a little bit later. We are
going on break now. But first, we get an update on what`s happening there in
Paris, and as we move into the mid hour of 3:00, we`ll be watching what the
protests are having at Place de la Republique. This as the climate talks begin,
and the concern, of course, is what sort of law enforcement action will happen
as the demonstrators gather out there on the streets, they are not supposed to
be able to demonstrate during the state of emergency that is in place.

LUI: President Obama and leaders from around the country are gathering here in
Paris, hoping for wide reaching agreement on climate issues and a climate pact.
But there are demonstrators in the streets, and not without some conflict. Just
moments ago, there was tear gas grenades that were used seen here, close to
Place de la Republique, Place de la Republique is, of course, the location where
many individuals have gathered over the recent weeks after the Paris attacks.
This is not allowed, the demonstrations, and so therefore, as we`ve seen some
scrums at least this morning, it is now 3:30 in the afternoon there. We are
watching for yet more potential of conflict, of course those watching this hope
that that does not happen. We`ll have more on this on MSNBC.

LUI: Watching breaking news coming out of Paris. Here, you see tear gas grenades
being fired in Place de la Republique. What was a very peaceful for most of the
time over the last two weeks, remembrances of those who lost their lives at the
Paris attacks. Now, this conflict between demonstrators as well as law
enforcement there is because in the state of emergency it is not allowed to have
these gatherings. During the climate summit, no doubt increased pressure about
what might be happening as leaders try to put together what could be a $100
billion agreement to help various countries with climate issues. NBC`s Gabe
Gutierrez is live from Paris, not too far from that location, and part of this
here, Gabe, is, they`re already under a very tension-ridden time period, because
we`re so close to the Paris attacks, which just happened weeks ago.

GUTIERREZ: Yeah, that`s right, Richard. Well, within the past few minutes we
spoke with police here in Paris, they won`t say how many arrests have happened
within the past hour or so, but as you can see, the situation still unfolding
there at the Place de la Republique and we were there just a little earlier this
morning when the demonstrators had laid shoes there on the Place de la
Republique, and it was a silent protest, a peaceful protest. And just a while
after that, we are told that there was a human chain where several thousand
demonstrators participated, but as you mentioned, Richard, France is under a
state of emergency and public demonstrations are banned, for the past few days.

There`s been a lot of debate over the, whether French government had given up
civil liberties for public safety. Of course, the government says it must do
everything it can to protect the public in the wake of the Paris attacks. As you
see there, though, sometime about an hour or so ago tear gas was lobbed and what
appeared to be stun grenades and the situation is still unfolding, even though
as 140 heads of state come here to Paris, the security situation had been
ramping up for several days, major highways had been closed and we`re waiting to
see how this all unfolds, Richard.

LUI: Gabe, very different than the past couple of weeks, because we did not see
this sort of conflict between those who were out in the streets and law
enforcement. It was much more, if you will, understanding of the situation, and
now we see this conflict. In addition to that, you have all of these signs and
what are you seeing on the signs of the demonstrators? What does it reflect?

GUTIERREZ: Well, you have to keep in mind that this was a major rally that was
supposed to happen ahead of this climate conference, a massive climate
conference, the largest diplomatic gathering in France since 1948, and
organizers had hoped that hundreds of thousands of demonstrators would be able
to take part in this rally here on Sunday. In fact, there have been many rallies
throughout the world and major cities like London and even Brussels, so far
today, and as well as in the U.S.

So, I think many of the climate change activists had wanted this to be a major
day to have their voices heard. Some of them are frustrated that the state of
emergency has prevented these public demonstrations. And in fact, over the last
week or so we`ve heard that from the lawyers of several of the people that have
been placed under house arrest that some of them claim to be climate change
activists and they say they have no ties whatsoever to radical Islamists, and
yet they have been put under house arrest. That`s what the lawyer of several of
those have alleged, the government again says that they are merely trying to
protect the public during what is obviously, a very difficult time.

So, again the police have not said how many arrests have - they`ve made over the
past hour or so, past two hours or so, but 120,000 troops and police officers
have been deployed across France since the beginning of November. This climate
change conference was already set to be a massive security situation even before
those Paris attacks just over two weeks ago, Richard.

LUI: OK, thank you so much, NBC`s Gabe Gutierrez live for us there in France.

And as we look at the protests that are happening all throughout the city there,
I appreciate that. Of course, we`ll be watching that throughout the rest of this
hour.

We`re going to turn now back to politics in the United States. Donald Trump this
morning continues to play defense on his unsubstantiated claim he saw thousands
of Muslims in New Jersey cheering the September 11th attacks. All this coming as
Republicans struggle with Muslim American voters whose support for the GOP has
dwindled since George W. Bush left office with some of the Republican candidates
becoming increasingly hostile to the United States Muslim population.

Question is, are they cutting themselves off from what would have been a
potentially powerful base? We are now joined by Suhail Khan, a former Bush
administration official and a senior fellow with the Institute for Global
Engagement. We also have Saba Ahmed, president of the Republican Muslim
Coalition. Thank you both so much for being here. I was mentioning George W.
Bush, Suhail. With the comments like we`ve been hearing, would the some almost 3
million Muslim Americans that live in this country, why should they support a
Republican candidate, why should they vote for one?

SUHAIL KHAN, SR. FELLOW, INST. FOR GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT: Well, as you pointed out,
Richard, there are millions of Muslim Americans across the country who like our
other friends and neighbors, support limited government, individual freedom,
strong defense and just growth in opportunity. That`s why I`ve been a lifelong
conservative. Unfortunately some of the comments from folks like Mr. Trump and
Dr. Carson really fly in the face of that inclusive message that the GOP has had
for generations going back to Lincoln and Ronald Reagan.

LUI: Saba, you told "The Daily Beast" that the GOP has created a hostile
environment, that`s what you said, for Muslims. If they were to want to turn it
around, what should candidates do and say to cultivate that important Muslim
American vote?

SABA AHMED, PRES., REPUBLICAN MUSLIM COALITION: I think GOP candidates should
reach out to their Muslim American constituents in key electoral states, reach
out to all the mosques. We have 2,200 plus mosques in the United States. We all
need to be represented, just like churches, synagogues, other places of worship,
just like any other faith community, there is a strong voter base for
conservatives, and I think Donald Trump, Ben Carson, all the leading Republican
presidential candidates ought to reach out to their constituents, Muslim
constituents.

LUI: Suhail, as I was mentioning, the support during the George W. Bush
election, 78 percent of Muslim Americans according to what we hear voted for
Bush.

What`s changed since then?

KHAN: Well, then Governor Bush was just so inclusive in his message. He was the
first candidate to visit a mosque in Michigan in 1999, and then you remember
after the horrific attacks of 9/11, he was very careful to visit a mosque again,
to stand for all Americans, the liberties of all Americans, including Muslim
Americans, and that is why you saw Muslim Americans rallying around our
president.

Unfortunately some candidates, in this time of fear and of concern for the
attacks on our country that we have seen in recent years, including our allies
in Paris and other places, now are trying to divide us based on religion and
ethnicity, and I think that is just the wrong path. It`s not conservative. It`s
not American, and I`m confident as we get closer to the elections in Iowa and
then New Hampshire, South Carolina, that a candidate will emerge that will be
inclusive, that will want to include all Americans, regardless of their race or
religious background, and we`ll really move towards one America.

LUI: It`s been estimated here, Saba, there was a self-identified Muslim who
organized fund-raisers for former speaker of the House, John Boehner, who said
some tens of thousands of Muslim Americans would vote for a GOP presidential
candidate. Is that what you think as well? Does that sound right, that number?

AHMED: Yes, of course. I think a lot of Muslim Americans identify with the
conservative Republican party platform. We are pro-life, pro- traditional family
values, pro-defense, pro-business, trade. I think a lot of conservative agenda
aligns with the Islamic values. We have held fund- raisers for speaker and for a
lot of other candidates, and we would like to continue doing that and support
the conservative leadership in Congress.

LUI: And there is also that other layer, right? When we are talking about the
Muslim American vote, we`re also talking about in many cases, in most cases the
minority vote, and when Trump and Carson have these controversial statements,
are they forgetting this layer to their remarks when they`re focusing if you
will on Muslims?

KHAN: That`s right.

AHMED: Yes of course.

KHAN: Oh, sorry, go ahead, Saba.

AHMED: I mean exactly, I think Trump and Carson need to, when I met with them,
Carson wanted me to host a fund-raiser for him and his campaign. But I asked him
about his anti-Islamic remarks, and he was very adamant he was advised by Frank
Gaffney and a few other folks who hate Muslims and who have a very anti-Islamic
agenda. So obviously if we`re going to change their perspectives, we need to
invite them to our homes and have a candid conversation and change their
perspectives on Muslim Americans. A lot of them don`t actually know Muslims. He
mentioned he grew up in Detroit and he knew a lot of Muslims, but obviously he
is not on a first-name basis right now on his presidential campaign trail. He
needs to have Muslim advisers advising him so he can win the American Muslim
vote.

LUI: Saba, talking about responses to the statements originally made, we have
this from Donald Trump on "Meet the Press" in answering the question as to why
he said what he said. Let`s listen to that and Suhail, I`ll get your response.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: I saw it on television. So did many other people.

TODD: In Jersey City, you saw Jersey City --

TRUMP: In the area. I also heard Patterson, excuse me. I heard Jersey City, I
heard Patterson. It was 14 years ago, but I saw it on television, I saw clips,
and so did many other people and many people saw it in person. I`ve had hundreds
of phone calls to the Trump Organization saying we saw it. It was dancing in the
streets.

TODD: This didn`t happen in New Jersey. There are plenty of reports.

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: It did happen in New Jersey. I have hundreds of people that agree with me
and by the way --

(CROSSTALK)

TODD: It doesn`t make it true.

TRUMP: Chuck, you have a huge Muslim population over there, and that`s fine.
That`s fine.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

LUI: So Suhail, there is candidate Donald Trump, defending his comments about
Muslim Americans cheering after 9/11. That just happening on "Meet the Press. "
What`s your thought?

KHAN : Mr. Trump unfortunately is repeating myths that are out there on the
Internet just like the Loch Ness monster and Bigfoot. This did not happen. On
the contrary, there were many Muslim Americans who died in the towers, there
were many Muslim American first responders who gave their lives trying to rescue
their fellow Americans. That`s the reality of 9/11. And American Muslims are
just as loyal and patriotic as their friends and neighbors. And for Donald Trump
to continue to double and triple down on this myth that again just divides us is
really something that again stands not for what conservatives stand for and what
America stands for.

LUI: Suhail Khan, Saba Ahmed, thank you both for spending your Sunday morning
with us here on MSNBC and for your perspective. We really do appreciate it.

AHMED: Sure, thank you for having us.

LUI: Up next the stunning revelation about one NFL legend and what it means for
one of the league`s biggest problems.

LUI: On Wednesday, Frank Gifford`s family announced that the sportscaster and
Giants hall of famer who died in August of natural causes had suffered from a
concussion related brain disease called CTE. His family said they decided to
have his brain studied after his death quote, "in hopes of contributing to the
advancement of medical research concerning the link between football and
traumatic brain injury." Gifford`s diagnosis comes at a time when there is
growing concern about the risk athletes face in many different sports from
repeated concussions. We`re joined now by Harry Carson, a hall of fame
linebacker for the New York Giants, who believes he suffered more than a dozen
concussions during his career and is still suffering the effects of them today.
Harry, thanks for joining us, and how are you doing based on that very early
diagnosis?

HARRY CARSON, FORMER NFL PLAYER: Well, I was diagnosed in 1990 with post
concussion syndrome. I think I`ve learned over the years how to manage it, which
means -- meant for me I knew what my triggers were in terms of bringing on
headaches and so forth. So I`ve lived a very normal life as a result of being
diagnosed so early. That`s 25 years ago.

LUI: Right. Right. Right.

CARSON: The problem with players now is they are not diagnosed, and so they
don`t really know what they`re dealing with, they don`t know how to manage their
own conditions.

LUI: Frank Gifford, we started this segment with, you knew him well.

CARSON: Yeah.

LUI: What does this mean that this has now been revealed for the rest of the
players, the rest of the NFL?

CARSON: I really don`t think it means anything. Because Frank played during an
era in which there were no protocols for concussions. Obviously he was knocked
out by Chuck Bednerick (ph) years ago, and it affected him in some manner, but
he came back to play. And what the Gifford family has done, they have to be
applauded, because they want to help add some kind of word to the dialogue of
concussions right now. I really don`t think it is going to affect the game in
any way, shape or form, because I think the game is just going to move on.
People are going to say, oh, that`s too bad, but that`s what happens in
football. It happened with Junior Seau. Dave Duerson (ph). Those guys committed
suicide, and Frank Gifford has been diagnosed.

LUI: Harry, we have seen since that the NFL saying we are taking steps and
putting in protocols, yet last Sunday, as you are aware, there was a St. Louis
quarterback who appeared to have suffered from some sort of impact, yet he was
not pulled from the field. What`s your thought?

CARSON: Well, it`s hard when a player sustains a hit and he insists upon staying
in the game. Obviously during the heat of competition, you may not necessarily
have all of your faculties about you, but because you`re out there and you`re
playing a game, you have that warrior mentality and you want to play. There was
a player, whether it was Edelman (ph) or whoever, in the Super Bowl against
Seattle and New England. He sustained a concussion. Right on the spot. But he
came back in and he played, he completed the game. When you have a player who is
insistent upon staying in the game, that really is a hard call. The officials,
the coaches, the medical staff really needs to step in and take over at that
point.

LUI: Harry Carson, thank you so much, NFL hall of famer giving us your
perspective.

CARSON: My pleasure. Sure.

LUI: And we`ll be right back.

LUI: As we close the hour, I`d like to thank our panel for being here this
morning. It`s been very busy. We continue to watch what`s happening in Paris
throughout the morning here on MSNBC. Melissa Harris-Perry is up next. She`ll
have a preview of the case for the first Baltimore police officers to go on
trial connected to the death of Freddie Gray.

THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE
UPDATED.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 112901cb.450

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript

                       Copyright 2015 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              Copyright 2015 MSNBC


                               3 of 24 DOCUMENTS


                                     MSNBC

                            November 29, 2015 Sunday

                    SHOW: MELISSA HARRIS-PERRY 10:00 AM EST

Senator Ted Cruz Tries to Convince Voters He is the Adult in the Room; John Bel
Edwards is the New Governor of Louisiana; Deadly Shooting in Colorado Planned
Parenthood Office; Trial for the First of Six Officers Charged in the April
Death of Freddie Gray Set to Begin; MSNBC

BYLINE: Melissa Harris-Perry; Leanne Gregg; Dorian Warren; Raul Reyes; Seema
Iyer

GUESTS: Bill Murphy; Susa del Percio; Zephyr Teachout, Khalil Muhammad, Joshua
Guild, Allyson Hobbs, Julian Vasquez-Heilig, Payton Head, Derecka Purnell, Toni
Tipton-Martin

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 14604  words



HIGHLIGHT: Senator Ted Cruz tries to convince voters that he is the adult in the
room and trying to win Iowa and New Hampshire. John Bel Edwards will be the
first democratic governor in all of the Deep South since former Louisiana
governor Kathleen Blanco left office in 2008. Three people were killed Friday
morning and police say 57-year-old Robert Dear shot a police officer and two
civilians whose names have not been released. The trial is scheduled to start
tomorrow with jury selection. And a Baltimore judge said he expects 75 to 80
jurors to appear for the first round of selection process.


MELISSA HARRIS-PERRY, MSNBC HOST: This morning, my question, will there be
justice for Freddie Gray?

Plus, what we are learning about the suspect in the Colorado Springs shooting.

And race on college campuses.

But first, Senator Ted Cruz tries to convince voters that he is the adult in the
room.

Good morning. I`m Melissa Harris-Perry.

And the Iowa caucuses are now just 64 days away. It will be the first major
electoral event of the nominating process for the next president of the United
States kicking us into high election season.

Yes, looks like pre-season is wrapping up and now it is time for voters to get
to actually know their choices. And as much as it`s been a bit of a hard
election season on the Republican side to really get to know the candidates
because, well, there`s just a lot of them.

And also, this has mostly been a campaign of distraction, shall we say, a
campaign driven by unlikely outsider candidates whose very appeal seems to be
their lack of experience or policy depth. We watch and wonder as they say
ridiculous, often offensive things, and that leaves us little time for the rest
of the field.

The GOP inability to remove the distractions has been the ongoing political
surprise story line of the year because the Republican Party is usually pretty
disciplined, pretty orderly in its succession. A party that views itself to its
quote "next in line," allowing candidate to build a strong campaign and win,
good on paper governors like Jeb Bush with his family legacy, or New Jersey
governor Chris Christie, former head of the Republican governors association and
candidate party leaders yearned to see run back in 2012. Even Wisconsin governor
Scott Walker with his blue- collar populist appeal before dropping out of the
race in September.

But none of these logical, reasonable choices has managed to break through the
crowded chaotic class of 16 field. Instead the leading contenders are a former
neurosurgeon and a reality TV star. That is until now. Because now the spotlight
shines on Ted Cruz.

Remember him? The junior senator from Texas, the former police sore general who
argued in front of the Supreme Court, Princeton and Harvard law educated, son of
a Cuban immigrant. Senator Cruz may have gained most of his national notoriety
by rhyming.

Last September he staged a 21-hour quasi filibuster using part of his time to
read this to his two young daughters who were supposedly tuned in to c- span at
that time?

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. TED CRUZ (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Do you like green eggs and ham? I do
not like them, Sam, I am. I do not like green eggs and ham. Would you like them
here or there? I would not like them here or there. I would not like them
anywhere. I do not like green eggs and ham. I do not like them, Sam I am.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HARRIS-PERRY: Outside his antics, he is known as a conservative firebrand buoyed
by the tea party support. Now, here is a snapshot of where he stands. Same-sex
marriage, he wants to deny it. Obamacare, he wants to repeal it. Planned
Parenthood, he wants to defund it. IRS, he wants to demolish.

And now, he is having moment. This week the tea party favorite emerged from the
crowded GOP field feeling less like an unknown and more like a serious
contender. As Dr. Ben Carson fades Ted Cruz is currently climbing in the polls
in especially in Iowa. New polling from Quinnipiac University puts Cruz near the
top of the field in the state with 23 percentage points inside the margin of
error on Donald Trump`s 25 percent. And while according to the evangelical vote,
Cruz has picked up the endorsement of representative Steve King, the outspoken
Iowa Republican and conservative and has raised a lot of money trailing only Jeb
Bush and Hillary Clinton.

Yes, we are still little more than two months away from the first votes cast,
but silly season is over. It is go time and the field is starting to take shape.
And Texas senator Ted Cruz repudiated by his colleagues in the Senate for his
antics, the man who brags not about leading a government but about shutting
government down, who until last year held dual citizenship in Canada. That Ted
Cruz is looking more and more like a real contender. With the poll numbers, the
money and the organization to go the distance.

Joining me, Dorian Warren, an MSNBC contributor and a host of "Nerding Out" on
MSNBC Shift. Susan del Percio, Republican strategist, Raul Reyes, attorney and
co-host of "Changing America on MSNBC Shift. And Zephyr Teachout Fordham law
professor and former Democratic candidate for the governor of New York.

Susan, can an outsider like a Carson or Trump actually win in a place like Iowa
where you have to have or we at least used to think that you had to have actual
strategy and machine?

SUSAN DEL PERCIO, REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST: There is a difference between what
Trump`s doing, what Carson`s doing and what Ted Cruz is doing. Trump is speaking
at as many people as possible. He is not (INAUDIBLE). He is not meeting them
one-on-one. He is not listening to what they have to say, but he is speaking to
them. So he has these huge rallies and gets all this coverage and that`s working
for him so far.

Then you have Ben Carson who is trying to do a little bit more, has the money
for an organization but really hasn`t gone into it and now we`re seeing that
because of his lack of credentials, it is really starting to hurt him.

Ted Cruz, on the other hand, is going to every county, 99 counties. He is doing
another town hall tomorrow even though he has this big bump in the polls. He is
not taking anything for granted. Nationwide he has 100,000 volunteers. This is
building up a machine. And the biggest difference I would say between Ted Cruz
and Donald Trump right now is Donald Trump doesn`t know what it takes to run a
campaign, you know, face to face. He doesn`t have -- he doesn`t get what people
want from him. Because he`s never been a candidate. Ted Cruz gets it. He knows
what it is to be in a primary. He knows what it is to be in a run-off. He knows
that he go press the flesh especially in a state like Iowa.

HARRIS-PERRY: Right. And that idea especially in a place like Iowa, right. I
mean, the caucuses are basically these folks are professional voters in their
certain right. And they are used to a particular kind of candidacy even if they
claim they want an outsider to the process.

RAUL REYES, ATTORNEY: They expect it in places like Iowa and New Hampshire. It
is hard for us I say in say like New York to even imagine this. But they are
used to meeting candidates one-on-one in their town hall --

HARRIS-PERRY: Multiple times!

REYES: Multiple times. They expect that. But the thing is at that point Donald
Trump has just rewritten all the rules. And you know, all the talk that we`ve
heard all summer that at a certain point a serious candidate was going to emerge
or grown-up was going to emerge, it may or may not happen. And now, even if we
look at Ted Cruz, someone is emerging but he is not that quote-unquote
"grown-up" that people expected it to be. You know, people thought it would be
maybe Jeb Bush at some point or perhaps Marco Rubio. And now it is Ted Cruz and
it is just so bizarre!

HARRIS-PERRY: You think Ted Cruz is not the grown-up?

REYES: I don`t know.

HARRIS-PERRY: Let`s listen again to Ted Cruz`s statement.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CRUZ: I do not like green eggs and ham, I do not like them, Sam I am.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HARRIS-PERRY: I`m so shocked that you don`t see him as the grown-up in the room.

ZEPHYR TEACHOUT (D), FORMER CANDIDATE FOR GOVERNOR OF NEW YORK: One of the
things that`s happening here especially post citizens united is you see the
parties basically playing less of a role and outside money playing more of a
role. And Ted Cruz in some ways is more the thing that we feared with enormous
amounts of hedge fund money, pro fracking money, coming in. Actually a lot of
Silicon Valley libertarian money. Google, Facebook Pac, both supported Ted Cruz
earlier and Peter Thielm, a serious in policy terms but serious cash, Silicon
Valley libertarian have all backed Cruz. And he has not a lot, a lot of not
traditional Republican support. But I would say quasi anarchistic libertarian --

DEL PERCIO: But if money was the only issue, or --

(CROSSTALK)

DEL PERCIO: Then you would have seen Scott Walker doing better. Jeb Bush
wouldn`t be (INAUDIBLE). And that is a lot of the money that you are talking
about and that is where it went. And they are now doing as well. The candidates
need to find a way of connecting with the voters especially in early voting
states.

HARRIS-PERRY: Well, it also interesting. You know, when you Zephyr, you know,
say he is in some ways more of what we feared and yet I have learned to fear new
things. Right? I mean, so it is one thing to deeply disagree with a party or
with a candidate and yet feel like they are perfectly capable of governing,
right. And I guess I`m not sure with Cruz. Like, you know, I look at someone
like a Marco Rubio or Jeb Bush, again, deep ideological disagreements but I
don`t fear that they could make executive decisions from the oval office.

With Ted Cruz, given the kind of glee in shutting down the government, I guess
I`m not quite sure if I should fear it in the way I do a real out like Trump or
Carson or if I should see him as just a version of a, you know, a candidate who
I disagree with but who I think is quite confident.

DORIAN WARREN, MSNBC CONTRIBUTOR: I`m not sure we should fear him yet. Because
this isn`t very surprising, the rise of Ted Cruz. I think he was the first
candidate to jump in the primary race back in March. And political scientists
who are analyzing has police preferences showed of the first four primary states
he was most in line with Republican primary voters. So this isn`t a shock that
he has come up in the polls.

HARRIS-PERRY: Dorian, he was most in line with Republican primary voters?

WARREN: In March. Absolutely.

HARRIS-PERRY: I would like to hear again Mr. Cruz`s statement?

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CRUZ: I do not like green eggs and ham, I do not like them, Sam I am.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WARREN: But here`s the thing about -- he owes his rise to Donald Trump because
as a political scientist (INAUDIBLE) says, you don`t have to win the nomination
to win the conversation. Trump changed the conversation around immigration. And
most of the -- the vast majority of the primary voters that are most active,
their intensity of preference is around immigration, the support goes to Trump.

HARRIS-PERRY: So they would vote for a Canadian? No, no. Look. He just is a
Canadian. It just -- like there isn`t any question that man was born in Canada
and that is fine with me. But I will just say that there was a sort of hounding
of our current president for years about whether or not he was born --

REYES: President Obama wasn`t born here either and Republican voters decided to
debunk that.

DEL PERCIO: But putting that aside, there is one other thing. Your concerns when
you say there are candidates you couldn`t agree with but see hem leading? Guess
who you share that same view with? The Republican establishment.

HARRIS-PERRY: Right, exactly.

DEL PERCIO: You want to be scared of something new, you and the Republican
establishment.

HARRIS-PERRY: We actually agree on all kinds of things, me and the Republican
establishment.

Up next, the evangelical angle. We really do. You`d be shocked at the things we
agree on.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CRUZ: The promise of America seems more and more distant. What is the promise of
America? The idea that the revolutionary idea that this country was founded upon
which is that our rights, they don`t come from man. They come from God almighty.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HARRIS-PERRY: That was Senator Ted Cruz in March just moments before officially
announcing his 2016 presidential bid. The address was at Liberty University in
Lynchburg, Virginia, the largest Christian university in the world.

And Zephyr, he really has done a good job on -- in that particular space, right.
I mean, more than 200 faith leaders having endorsed him for president. Just
announcing that his formation of a national prayer team. And so there is going
to be sort of national leaders who will be doing these, you know. So I mean,
this is real strategy in the context of a Republican primary.

TEACHOUT: Yes. Again, I want to return to this sort of strange marriage between
the sort of libertarian quasi anarchistic donors, and then the sort of deep
faith leaders that you see in Cruz. I find a lot of what he`s talking about very
disturbing, including his response to the refugee moment recently was to say we
should not allow in Syrians who are -- Syrian refugees who are Muslim, but allow
in Syrian refugees who are Christians. There is really -- it is not just a faith
but a pretty deep religious bigotry that he`s expressing.

HARRIS-PERRY: In fact, during that announcement, we just also take a listen to
what he said about that point about kind of radical Islam as a cursive
statement.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CRUZ: Imagine a president who says we will stand up and defeat radical Islamic
terrorism. And we will call it by its name.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HARRIS-PERRY: I mean, I find that troubling as well, right. Defeating terrorism,
sure. But I mean I think we just saw - I mean, literally just saw in the
Colorado shooting that acts of terror are not about one religious identity.

REYES: But that goes back to the Trump effect. If it weren`t this bizarre
primary field this year, Trump has pulled things so far to the right that now
Ted Cruz to a lot of people looks the quote-unquote "moderate" candidate.

You know, as you pointed out in the intro, he is known for obstructionism,
shutting down the government, absolutely inflammatory rhetoric. But by
comparison to the people in the field, he is now presenting himself as the
electable candidate, as a reasonable alternative candidate, a role that many
people thought should have gone to Bush. But this is where we are right now. For
all the talk about riding the party and the primary voters coming to their
senses. This is where they are. Maybe me they have righted themselves. This is
what they want.

HARRIS-PERRY: So does the GOP essentially really want Cruz? Marco Rubio was the
last person we were talking about.

DEL PERCIO: And I don`t think you`re going to see Ted Cruz go all the way. And
the question is also, if he`s peaking this early, don`t forget the Iowa primary
is a month later than it normally is. So it is very early for him to peak this
high in this norm because he will be torn down. When you are in the spotlight,
people will -- you are a target. And does he want to be a target of Donald
Trump? It will be very interesting to see how their relationship which has been
a bit of a bromance will now evolve.

Now, he did go after Trump about the Muslim registry. He said that was
inappropriate. But this is a man who will go all the way to an extreme. He
called President Obama -- now I disagree with that, but he called him the
largest supporter of state sponsored terrorism. That`s absurd! That shouldn`t
fly.

REYES: He says he doesn`t want to defend the country.

DEL PERCIO: That is unacceptable. Now, you can have a different point of view
but not that extreme. And that`s what he is known for. That`s what people are
afraid of because you can`t rely on him to do something responsible.

HARRIS-PERRY: So, it is interesting. This question of sort of something
responsible, the "New Hampshire union leader" endorsed Chris Christie and did it
with discourse about national security, saying, OK, now that, you know, the
Paris attacks have happened, now that we`re in this moment we need a real
grown-up, someone who will do something responsible and that is Chris Christie.
Does that create a space for kind of the grown-ups in the room to show up?

WARREN: I think so because they also in that endorsement attack those candidates
from the private sector. So Donald Trump and Carly Fiorina. Because they don`t
have the experience as a Christie as governor, right.

HARRIS-PERRY: They also attack all the senators by also attacking the president.
So they said we don`t need a young senator because that`s what we have now and
it is a terrible thing.

WARREN: It is an interesting priming because what they have done in that
endorsement of Chris Christie is put international terrorism or foreign
terrorism, not domestic terrorism, the point you just made in terms of Planned
Parenthood and the attack on Planned Parenthood. But they have lifted terrorism
as an issue that is much more salient and try to make the argument for their
endorsement for Christie.

One of the thing that is interesting about Cruz and I think this is a structural
change in the Republican Party over the last several decades, in 1980 there was
only one debate before the primary and for the caucus in Iowa. Now there is six.
Ted Cruz is an excellent debater as we know. And so this gives him a chance to
make himself know --

HARRIS-PERRY: Is he an excellent debater, Dorian Warren? I would like to hear
once again Mr. Cruz speaking.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CRUZ: I do in the like green eggs and ham, I do not like them, Sam I am.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HARRIS-PERRY: Dorian Warren (INAUDIBLE).

Up next, a democrat won in the south and not just in the south -- in Louisiana
in a state wide race. Really, it happened. We are talking about him when we come
back.

HARRIS-PERRY: One of the biggest political surprises of the year happened just
last week when Louisiana elected a democrat as its next governor. John Bel
Edwards will be the first democratic governor in all of the Deep South since
former Louisiana governor Kathleen Blanco left office in 2008.

Political insiders had expected Republican senator David Vitter to cruise to an
easy victory, so much so the Democrats who were more prominent that Edwards
decided against running because their chances appeared to be so slim. But
Edwards, a formerly obscure state legislator who surprised everyone by winning
the open primary last month with 40 percent of the vote and then he soundly beat
Vitter in the run off by 12 points. How in a world did he do it?

Here with us to help explain is John Rowley, the media strategist for John Bel
Edwards successful gubernatorial campaign.

So John, how did you all do it?

JOHN ROWLEY, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: It`s interesting. We worked for an
independent expenditure, not directly for his campaign. Two of the keys were the
candidate got a very early start. He started running two and three years out
which I think is a model for other candidates in very competitive, if not red
areas. And also there were a number of independent expenditure groups that came
together early and helped him early in that primary around the runoff that were
key.

And also, you know, you had David Vitter as an opponent. I mean, he had big
problems going into the race, then a huge scandal broke by an investigative
blogger that blew things up. And then another thing that I think is also a model
for Democrats and competitive various is we had - there was a candidate with a
great profile, military veteran, army ranger, West Point, and also he was
pro-life, pro-gun which should mitigated some of the late attacks that Vitter
and his super PACs tried to volley at him.

HARRIS-PERRY: All right. So I want to - just for folks who weren`t following
this race. And I know this isn`t actually an ad that your group did, but this
really was the kind of extraordinary ad that points out I think kind the
candidate nature as opposed to the ideological nature of this race. So let`s
just take a look at what I think is one of the best ads of the year.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The choice for governor couldn`t be more clear. John Bel
Edwards who answered our country`s call and served as a ranger in the 82nd
airborne division. Or David Vitter who answered a prostitute`s call minutes
after he skipped a vote monitoring 28 soldiers who gave their lives in defense
of our freedom. . David Vitter chose prostitutes over patriots. Now the choice
is yours.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HARRIS-PERRY: Man, I mean, I hardly -- like I can hardly even believe that even
it happened in the world. So let me ask you this, John. So given that you can
make -- that someone can make an ad prostitutes over patriots in this case, is
this actually a story that can be bigger? Is this something about how Democrats
can run in the south? Or is this really just like if you`re running against a
guy who answered a prostitute`s call instead of, you know, taking a vote --

ROWLEY: Well, Democrats didn`t beat him in 2010 when a lot of this information
was out there. So there are certainly things to replicate the profile of the
candidate, forming of third parties to match all the Republican third parties
being very aggressive against Vitter. And I think that ad needed a disclaimer
of, you know, strong words to follow probably before it aired.

And then, you know, the other thing is, the organization we are involved with,
Louisiana families first, is also very focused on motivating African- American
voters and the field program and black turnout was higher in the jungle primary
and in the runoff as they call it in Louisiana.

HARRIS-PERRY: Hold on. Zephyr, I want to let you in on the money piece. Yes, go
ahead.

TEACHOUT: OK, great. I`m thrilled that Edwards won, but this is not a good
development for Democrats in the deep -- small D Democratic sense or big D
democratic sense because outside money funders are going to be hedge funders.
They are not going to be in general be focused on core democratic populist
issues. And it sort speaks to the rise of personal politics instead of politics
that is actually about roads, bridges, schools and the basics in our society. So
I don`t think there is any celebration in the use of outside groups even I`m
thrilled with that.

HARRIS-PERRY: Hold on.

John, because it just occurred to me as somebody who`s lived in New Orleans,
that when you say jungle primary, I hear something different than what the rest
of the world might have just heard when you said it. Can you please explain that
for a second?

ROWLEY: Well, I mean, this race proved like Louisiana has proved a lot of times.
It is one of the more fascinating places to watch politics. In Louisiana, like
California`s primary, Democrats and Republicans are on the ballot together in
the first race and in the second race. So there is not a conventional Democratic
primary. So you could have gone in and voted for the D or the R. And so there
were three strong Republican candidates and John Bel Edwards.

And in terms of what was said about the independent expenditures, in this case
anyway that wasn`t really the case in terms of a lot of the people that were
supporting some of these efforts. And I think I guess as progressives and on the
Democratic side, we have got a choice to make, do we want to unilaterally disarm
or do we want to be competitive in terms of spending. I mean, Vitter he a super
PAC still incredibly outspent the Democratic side of things but they were able
to prevail.

DEL PERCIO: And so with strategists -- a win is a win so I hand it over. That
was a well done race from Edwards` side. However, it is very interesting to see
in 2015 that race happening when you see nationally where the progressive
movement on the democratic side is moving. Don`t forget, I wonder how
governor-elect Edwards is going to do being -- he doubled down on being
pro-life. He doubled down on being pro-gun. He moved very much away from
President Obama.

HARRIS-PERRY: No, see, I think he didn`t.

DEL PERCIO: I think he is quoted saying I am not like national Democrats. That`s
what --

HARRIS-PERRY: Right. He did say I`m not like national Democrats but unlike so
many of the southern Dems who in the mid-terms ran hard against the president,
they actually in this case recognize that black voters -- I mean when you look
at - John, am I wrong that African-American turnout in this off-year election
was one of the highest that we have seen in an off- year election?

ROWLEY: That`s four or five points up.

DEL PERCIO: That`s great political strategy. I will give you that. That is great
strategy. That`s good outreach. There were some great ads done in that race. But
it wasn`t necessarily saying just because you do outreach in those communities,
it doesn`t mean you`re saying I am with the president`s agenda. It doesn`t mean
that you are with the president. It means you are doing a very smart retail
campaign.

(CROSSTALK)

REYES: Twenty percent approval rating, even majority of Republicans don`t like
him. That`s sort of flipping the script because in the past Republicans liked to
tie candidates to President Obama. This time they did it with such a massively
unpopular governor.

HARRIS-PERRY: Right. And you know, I guess the main thing I just want to take
away from this, John Rowley in (INAUDIBLE). Thank you for joining us.

But is the point I`ve heard you make a million times. You`ve got to run to win
and Democrats have to actually challenge in the south instead of just continuing
to just give over all of those races.

So thank you to Susa del Percio and Zephyr Teachout. Dorian and Raul are
sticking around a little bit longer.

Still to come this morning, the first trial for the officers charged in the
death of Freddie Gray is about to begin.

And up next, we want to get you the latest on the suspected gunman in the
shooting in the Colorado Springs Planned Parenthood.

HARRIS-PERRY: New details are emerging about what happened in the moments
following a deadly shooting of Colorado Planned Parenthood office. Three people
were killed Friday morning and police say 57-year-old Robert Dear shot a police
officer and two civilians whose names have not been released.

Dear was taken into custody after a five-hour standoff. Two law enforcement
sources with knowledge of the case tell NBC News when Dear was taken into
custody, his rantings included the words quote "no more baby parts." Those
sources say Dear said many things to law enforcement, including references to
President Obama and politics and that a motive has not been determined. Dear is
expected to appear in court tomorrow.

Joining me now from Colorado Springs, NBC News correspondent Leanne Gregg.

Leanne, what else do we know at this point about Dear`s background?

LEANNE GREGG, NBC NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Well, Melissa, the picture emerging is of
a man who`s reclusive, who sought solitude in the Carolinas. Most recently he
lived in a very small town 65 miles west Of Colorado Springs in a travel trailer
with a woman with no electricity. Neighbors said he is a mystery that he kept to
himself, even in a small town. Very few people actually say they know him.

His criminal past shows that he has several arrests, everything including
domestic violence against his then-wife. That was back in the `90s. Also a
peeping tom arrest in connection with looking at a neighbor.

Law enforcement described his statements following his arrests on Friday as
rantings. In addition to that comment about "no more body parts," he also talked
about President Obama, they said, and many other subjects and went on and on.

And while police do continue to stress that it is too early to name a motive,
Planned Parenthood officials say that they believe he targeted the facility
because he opposes abortion. They say that because witnesses comments that he
made while he was in the facility.

Meanwhile across the city today, all across the congregations and churches,
people are offering prayers on this first Sunday after the attack for the
victims and for everyone involved in the violence on Friday. That as the gunman
remains in jail without bond. Again his first court appearance is scheduled for
tomorrow - Melissa.

HARRIS-PERRY: NBC`s Leanne Gregg in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Thank you.

And up next, will there be justice for Freddie Gray?

HARRIS-PERRY: Tomorrow the trial is set to begin for the first of six officers
charged in the April death of Freddie Gray.

Gray died from a critical neck injury that he sustained in police custody after
arresting officers placed him handcuffed and shackled but unsecured in to the
back of a police van. Officer William G. Porter is accused of failing to seek
medical attention for Gray`s injuries and is facing charges of manslaughter,
second degree assault, misconduct in office and reckless endangerment.

The trial is scheduled to start tomorrow with jury selection. And a Baltimore
judge said he expects 75 to 80 jurors to appear for the first round of selection
process. Prosecutors and defense attorneys will face the challenging task of
picking 12 jurors to give a fair consideration to the evidence and testimony
amid a local and national climate of heightened attention to cases involving
police use of force.

With me now, Dorian Warren, MSNBC contributor and host of "Nerding Out" on MSNBC
Shift, Seema Iyer, MSNBC contributor and host of the MSNBC Shift legal show "the
Docket," and a criminal defense attorney who was formerly a prosecutor in the
Bronx district attorney`s office. And Raul Reyes, attorney and a contributor to
NBCNews.com.

So talk to me, Seema, what are attorneys going to be looking for as their kind
of pick this jury?

SEEMA IYER, MSNBC CONTRIBUTOR: OK. The first thing is they are going to ask the
jurors in the jury poll have you been exposed to the riots. That`s really
important. And what side they fell on. The other big issue which is always an
issue I think when you are trying cases involving police witnesses is their
feelings towards law enforcement. And then finally, of course, what do you know
about the case and is that going to affect your ability to be fair and
impartial.

HARRIS-PERRY: There has been a lot of effort on the part of the defense
attorneys to move this out Baltimore and this judge keeps saying, no, we`re
going to do this here. What are your thoughts about that?

REYES: No, the judge is absolutely right. Because moving -- when you take a
trial and you move it to another venue, that`s really an extraordinary thing and
it is not to be taken lightly especially in this case. It has to do with, for
example, you know, the issues of bias, the issues of what constitutes acceptable
police behavior in a high-crime neighborhood and when does police behavior
possibly cross the line into criminality. These are questions that people who
have lived there, they have lived experienced, they might know in a way people
in the suburbs cannot.

And it also, it needs to be in Baltimore not only because the jury needs to look
like Baltimore, but because studies have shown -- even studies done in
Baltimore, for example, juries in the city in urban areas reach far different
verdicts than jurors in suburban neighbors. So it belongs there. And if the jury
pool does not represent Baltimore -- I think Baltimore is about 60, 65 percent
black. If -- the jury will not be seen as legitimate. So it needs to stay there.
He is absolutely right on that.

HARRIS-PERRY: I want to come out a little bit from the actual trial. We will go
back to it in a second.

But Dorian, it feels like this is not just a trial around Freddie Gray`s case.
This is the first time in this kind of big arc of the Black Lives Matter
movement when an officer has been held accountable at trial for the death of an
unarmed African-American. How important is sort of the process here for a sense
that some level of justice is possible?

WARREN: It is the miner`s canary in terms of fairness in the criminal justice
system when it comes to race. The nation will be watching this trial to really
try to understand is the system, is the justice system inevitably corrupt? Or is
there any kind of transparency and justice that black folks can actually win? So
think about Ferguson and what happened there. Think about Chicago last week in
terms of taking --

HARRIS-PERRY: But when you frame it as black folks though, it is worth pointing
out that this officer is also African-American, that this -- lots of things
about Baltimore are different. Right? But like the speed with which this case --
we don`t have charges in the Tamir Rice case, and yet this one is already at
trial.

IYER: I think what is funny is as we talk about this in court sometimes. Just
because your client is black doesn`t mean -- and the officer`s black or the DA`s
black doesn`t mean it is going to help you. It really doesn`t.

HARRIS-PERRY: Everybody`s black in this case!

IYER: So we can remove that issue.

HARRIS-PERRY: But we can`t really. Right? Like -- so on one hand everybody`s
black and yet it actually doesn`t then make race not an issue - -

IYER: No, no, not at all. But at least in my experience, and I want to hear what
Raul has to say, I think the judge sometimes determines the fairness of the
proceeding and I am incredibly confident with this judge that we will have a
fair trial.

WARREN: And this is important, because this judge used to prosecute police
misconduct for the justice department previously.

HARRIS-PERRY: Sir, this is a real thing, right. This is a former DOJ attorney
who got convictions against police officers.

(CROSSTALK)

REYES: Yes. So he knows what to look for and he knows, you know, what
constitutes acceptable conduct. But when you talk about the larger national
issues, things like the movements around social justice, Black Lives Matter, the
thing that`s so important to keep in mind is just that in these trials, all
those things, and I`m going to preface this by saying I think what was done to
Freddie Gray was horrific, those things are irrelevant.

IYER: Irrelevant?

REYES: Irrelevant.

IYER: Everything is relevant!

REYES: No, because it all is going to turns on the case that the prosecution
makes. It is not going to turn on possible consequence. They have a high bar to
clear, you know, to proving beyond a reasonable doubt. They have bar to clear --

IYER: Listen, there are going to be jurors who are going to get on that jury
because they have something to prove. They are politically motivated, socially
motivated --

HARRIS-PERRY: But potentially on both sides. Right?

IYER: Absolutely.

HARRIS-PERRY: They either want something to prove on the BLM side and also on
the office officer`s side.

REYES: You want to exclude them because then they are trying to make a point.

IYER: They aren`t always forthcoming. That`s the problem.

WARREN: None of those jurors walk in with a blank slate. They have been paying
attention especially this issue is very salient in Baltimore. So they have been
paying interest to the news. They have experiences and feelings about the police
regardless of whether the prosecution or the defense can squeeze that out.

(CROSSTALK)

HARRIS-PERRY: OK. I`m going to try to get you to just hold some of this until
after the commercial break.

And when we come back, I`m going to bring in the attorney for the family of
Freddy Gray. Billy Murphy joins us next.

HARRIS-PERRY: Baltimore is among the growing list of American cities where the
death of an African-American while in police custody has prompted a demand for
police accountability. But Baltimore stands out among those cities because
seldom in these high-profile cases have we seen that demand actually answered
quite like this.

The justice system responded fairly quickly in Baltimore with Baltimore city`s
state attorneys Marilyn Mosby announcing charges against all six officers
involved with Freddie Gray`s arrest less than three weeks after his death. And
this week, almost seven months to the day since those charges were announced,
the first of six separate trials between now and March for each of the accused
officers.

Joining me now from Baltimore is Billy Murphy, attorney for the family of
Freddie Gray.

Nice to have you, Mr. Murphy.

BILL MURPHY, ATTORNEY FOR FREDDIE GRAY`S FAMILY: Nice to be here. How are you?

HARRIS-PERRY: Pretty good. So we are talking here about this idea that on the
one hand, you know, in the kind of big movement around Black Lives Matter,
Baltimore is a space where justice looks as though it may be possible. But I`m
interested for the family of Freddie Gray what justice looks like.

MURPHY: The family is very unusual. They don`t have a particular result in mind
like most people do who are watching. They don`t want a guilty verdict. They
don`t want a not guilty verdict. They want whatever is based on the evidence and
the law in the fairest sense possible. They want the jury to be open-minded.
They want them to listen closely to both sides. And then they want them to
follow the law and come up with an evidence law-based verdict, not preconceived
notions. Because that`s exactly what the problem is. People come in with biased
attitudes in one way or another. And people don`t get justice that way, so they
want pure justice.

HARRIS-PERRY: So this is a really interesting point. In part because you have
six officers, they`re going to be tried in separate trials and apparently some
of the information will come out in the first trials will also be used as
information in later trials. Talk to me a little bit about that.

MURPHY: Well with be in multiple trials where basically you are talking about
the same scenario over and over again. Of course, that`s going to happen. People
are going to understand better the second trial than they will understand the
first trial. Then believe it or not, there are going to be some surprises in the
first trial. And they are going to be evidentiary approaches and theories that
are sometimes counterintuitive.

But in any event, which won`t be expected by people who have been following the
case. And that`s because the one thing that`s been missing in this dialogue is a
factual discussion. That will happen before the second trial. But this trial is
going to be shrouded in mystery until the evidence comes out. And that`s a good
thing in many ways.

HARRIS-PERRY: Hold for me a second, Mr. Murphy.

Seema, I want you let on this. In part, because this idea - I mean, this is very
different language than what we have heard. What we want is for the system to
actually work. We want to see this thing that we think of as the American system
of justice where we presenting the facts to actually play out. What`s your sense
about the likelihood of that can actually happen in this case?

IYER: I do think it could happen. First of all, the severance is based on the
defendants, each of the officers making these different statements. And that
things are going to come out in officer porter`s trial that could be used
against Officer Gordon and white, for instance. So I think that lends itself to
fairness on a purely evidentiary level. That`s number one.

Number two, I do think the judge -- Judge Billy, he may have more experience
with Judge Barry Williams so he would be able to tell us about him, but I think
we are in a position to have a fair judge.

And it is so important, Melissa, I think to have a fair judge because that`s
where you get your rulings. If I am trying to put in evidence my prior
relationship with Freddie Gray and the defense wants it in the prosecution
doesn`t, that`s up to the judge to say, wait a minute, this is irrelevant, or it
is relevant to the officer`s state of mind when dealing with Freddie Gray.

HARRIS-PERRY: So what do you think, Mr. Murphy? Is this a judge who you are
confident is likely to make fair decisions in those kinds of cases?

MURPHY: Absolutely. I have known him since he was a baby prosecutor years ago.
And I followed his career all through its various stages and he`s very
thoughtful. He is very, very bright. And he is an extraordinarily fair human
being. But he`s no nonsense.

And so, you can expect that the trains will run on time and you can expect that
he won`t let the lawyers grandstand or do the things that many of us are famous
for. And he will make sure that it is a dignified proceeding uninfluenced by
outside events. I`m very confident in him. And to the extent that judges set the
tone for cases. He is the right tone setter.

HARRIS-PERRY: So you know, it is interesting you say, you know, unaffected by
things that are happening on the outside, and yet, Raul, this case, and the fact
that there are six of them will undoubtedly impact what happens in the -- I mean
Baltimore is now going to go through six separate trials. And whatever is
happening for the family, this will be undoubtedly emotional for the city.

REYES: Right. And there is also two other factors that make this case very
unusual. One is that because you have police officers on trial. Think about it.
Normally, for example, if you are on the prosecution side, you want people who
self-identify as law and order type people. You want people who tend to support
the police. You want people who can`t imagine themselves in the shoes of the
defendant. This time, that`s what the defense wants. I mean, it sort of flip
that way.

And this case is also unusual because there is already been a civil settlement
with the Freddie Gray family. Usually that comes afterwards. And now, some
people say, well, that could possibly bias jurors that they could say, well, it
is some type of admission of guilt. But it could also play the other way.
Because if they`re on the fence, they could say the family`s already gotten this
in the form of justice, so let`s just, you know, go not guilty. So these two
factors also play in to this and I think it`s going to be -- as we go through
the trials, they will have a role. It is very unusual.

HARRIS-PERRY: I have an unfair question to ask with such brief time. But we keep
hearing about the Ferguson effect as this chilling effect on the ways in which
officers are doing their work on the ground. I wonder if finally seeing a
Baltimore set of cases here will impact how police officers are thinking
potentially in ways that are good, that are pro justice.

WARREN: There`s no Ferguson effect when you look at the data and evidence,
number one. Number two, this is a question about public accountability in terms
of those charged with enforcing public safety. And I hope every officer in this
country is watching this case very closely to understand that not just in
Baltimore but potentially in other places they will be held accountable for any
misconduct of crimes they commit against civilians.

HARRIS-PERRY: Thank you to ---

MURPHY: There`s actually more likelihood there will be a Chicago effect given
the premise and recently of those events. Very sad story in Chicago.

HARRIS-PERRY: Yes. Well, and hopefully what that Chicago effect is with being is
if you have a tape, don`t wait a year to release it.

Thank you to judge Billy Murphy in Baltimore. And here in New York, thank you to
Dorian Warren, Seema Iyer and Raul Reyes.

Still to come this morning, if your kid is home but headed back to college later
today, you could let them sleep or you could go grab them and wake them up
because up next, race on campus. What our young people are facing and how
they`re handling it.

There is more Nerdland at the top of the hour.

HARRIS-PERRY: Welcome back. I`m Melissa Harris-Perry. This weekend demonstrators
in Chicago and Seattle took to the streets to protest the killings of unarmed
black people by police. They disrupted the typically care-free early shopping
days of the holiday season to draw attention to inequities in policing, criminal
justice and incarceration. Streets of major American cities are not the only
places where protests and calls for racial justice have emerged. For more than a
year many American campuses have been sites of student organizing and direct
action protests.

First we saw social media campaigns addressing macroaggressions. And then in
recent weeks campus protests have grown more urgent and widespread. Nowhere more
so than at the University of Missouri in Columbia just a short drive from
Ferguson, Missouri where the shooting death of Michael Brown and the police
action in response to citizen protests galvanized a national Black Live Matter
Movement. At Mizzou, students demands culminated on November 9th, the
resignation of the president of the university system, Tim Wolfe.

After a group of Mizzou student activists called for Wolfe to resign after what
they say was his failure on multiple occasions to respond to their ongoing
attempts to bring us attention to issues of racial injustice at the school. And
on November 2nd, Jonathan Butler, a graduate student and member of the group
amplified their call with a hunger strike that he said would continue until
Wolfe left office. And then, on November 7th, African-American members of
Mizzou`s football team announced they would boycott the season until Wolfe,
quote, "resigns or is removed due to his negligence towards marginalized student
experiences."

Wolfe stepped down two days later. His resignation was just one of several
demands that were meet by university administrators. Now, that same day, the UM
system, board of curators announced plan for diversity and inclusion training
program, new support for the hiring and retention of more diverse faculty and
stuff, the additional support for people who`ve experienced discrimination and
disparate treatment on campus. The Mizzou protests have been followed by actions
at many of nation`s most elite universities. Students at Yale -- California`s --
and Occidental College, Georgetown University, Princeton University. And many
others turned out en masse to highlight their experiences of feeling
marginalized on their campuses and to call on administrators to meet their own
list of demands.

This is not the first time that political protests in American cities have been
accompanied by movements on college campuses. College students were among the
vanguard of the civil rights leadership. Much of the anti- Vietnam war movement
was organized on college campuses. In the late 1960s and the 1970s, students
initiated movements that led to the emergence of black studies departments. The
following decades thousands of students` activists called for the schools to
divest from apartheid era South Africa. Just last years, students joined with
the Black Lives Matter Movement when they begin to -- to protest a grand jury
decision not to charge Darren Wilson in the death of Michael Brown.

Today protests are focused on the experience students say they`re having on
their own campuses. In March, students at the Universities of Oklahoma spoke out
after a video emerged of showing members of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity
participating in a racially offensive chant. And also in March, students at the
University of Virginia described policing in their college campus after UVA
student Martese Johnson was violently arrested by the ABC agents. Students
insist that these incidents are symptomatic of campus cultures that nominally
value inclusion but fall short of cultivating that inclusivity in meaningful
ways. Some critics even say it is little more than hurt feelings of the coddled
millennials. Others as the result of political correctness run amok.

For those of us who believe that colleges are laboratories for democracy, there
is much to herald and much to critique in current campus organizing because
college should be hard. Part of the college experience should be encountering
ideas and opinions both inside and outside of the classroom that challenge
everything you thought you knew or believed. It`s meeting people you disagree
with and who disagree with you. And who might sometimes, ahah, hurt your
feelings. But also disrupt your world view, inspire you to think and to think
again. In these ways college should be hard. But college should also be safe.

Now safety doesn`t stifle debate or disagreement or even attempt to protect you
from discomfort. Safety actually allows for debate and disagreement by ensuring
that students can explore and engage without enduring the kind of mental,
physical or soul-deep assaults that can leave lasting scars. Meaningful
diversity helps to cultivate colleges that are both safe and hard but the last
decade has seen a trend towards more economically and racially homogenous
campuses. In 2009, 75 percent of freshman slots at the country`s most elite
colleges and universities were held by white students. In 2013, 84 percent of
full-time professors on campuses were white and the vast majority of them white
men.

In 2003, the Century Foundation found almost three-quarters of students entering
tier one colleges and universities come from the wealthiest families but only
three percent of students from the poorest families attend those same top
schools. College can`t be hard. It can`t push us to think in new ways and
encounter new ideas if it doesn`t give us the chance to encounter those who are
different from ourselves. And college can`t be safe and create challenging
spaces for exploration and experimentation unless it nurtures tangible
manifestations of substantive diversity.

Joining me now, Khalil Muhammad, director of the Schomburg Center for Research
and Black Culture. Professor Joshua Guild who is associate professor of History
and African American Studies at Princeton University. Allyson Hobbs, associate
professor of American History at Stanford University and a contributing writer
to the NewYorker.com. And Julian Vasquez-Heilig, who is professor of Educational
Leadership and Policy Studies at California State Sacramento and the California
NAACP education chair. So nice to have you guys here.

JOSH GUILD, ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR, PRINCETON UNIVERSITY: Good to be here.

ALLYSON HOBBS, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR, STANFORD UNIVERSITY: Thank you for having
us.

HARRIS-PERRY: Like a college professor festival. Josh, I want to start with you.
Roxane Gay wrote of the student protests that often though the kind of
condescension in how we talked about it. These are just kinds of hurt
millennials but actually they`re not just college students. These are college
students who have identities. They don`t leave their identities at the door.

GUILD: I mean, these are young people to my mind who are politicized in the
current moment. As we saw it in the opening. These are young people who are
coming out of Black Lives Matter Movement. This is the Trayvon Martin
generation. This is the Rekia Boyd generation. This is the Michael Brown
generation. So we can`t separate the outside world from the campus world. These
things are intimately related. These are also young people who are thinkers.
These are intellectuals and they`re mounting an intellectual debate on our
campuses and our society. I think that`s what is so profound about this current
moment.

HARRIS-PERRY: So I love the idea that that is true. But there are moments in
what I am seeing Khalil that I`m not certain that it feels like an outgrowth of
the Black Lives Matter Movement. And let me just say that for me, one example is
the extent to which many of these demands -- not all of them and not at every
campus, but on some campuses seem to lack some of the institutional structural
claims that they are often claims about recognition. And I don`t, you know,
wrote a whole book about recognition. I don`t mean that it is irrelevant but
that it doesn`t quite feel to me like the claims happening in communities around
structural change.

KHALIL GIBRAN MUHAMMAD, DIRECTOR, SCHOMBURG CENTER FOR RESEARCH: Well, I think
that it is moving in two directions and I think it is hard to pin down. So, one
of the things that anchors all of this for me is thinking about they`ll back you
in the dream defenders.

HARRIS-PERRY: Uh-hm.

MUHAMMAD: This is an organization that is started in the wake of the Zimmerman
acquittal. They occupied Rick Scott`s office. It grows to represent college
students on nine different campuses. And at this very moment, it is continuing
to do that organizing work on those campuses and even extending to secondary
school which is to say that we can`t pick one side of it or the other.

HARRIS-PERRY: But they occupy Rick Scott`s office in order to make a claim about
seeing their ground, about a public policy.

MUHAMMAD: Absolutely. But the point is, you can`t -- once the genie is out of
the bottle you can`t pan it down and say this is one thing and that`s another,
this is legitimate and that`s illegitimate. This is about structure, this is
about identity. Which is to say that the consciousness of those students on
those Florida campuses has fundamentally peaked and therefore different and
they`re going to see things now and going to speak to those challenges in ways
that they might not have before. I also think it matters that Occupy Movement
precedes even that movement and they claimed some of their -- the dream
defenders claimed some of their organizing strategies inspired by the occupy
movement which itself opened up a genie of representation and tactics. Our white
students treated differently when they are organizing on campus the police show
up, do they say come on, guys, let`s go back to the classroom or are they
subject to the kind of brutal forms of oppression. So, those kinds of identity
politics that played out even in the organizing on campus.

HARRIS-PERRY: Sure. I will say that we saw -- we saw on some campuses. I mean,
there was the example, the occupied students. Most of the white students were
being pepper sprayed, right, so there were these moments that said, so I hear
you that you can`t say some are legitimate and others aren`t. But I guess for me
there are -- when I think about what a college campus is, the relationship
between students and administrators is one part of it but there is -- also
universities also contract. They contract with food service workers and with
janitorial workers. They have relationships with the communities in which they
find themselves. And some of these student movements are very much addressing
those and many of them in fact also are not.

JULIAN VASQUEZ-HEILIG, PROFESSOR, CALIFORNIA STATE SACRAMENTO: I think that`s a
good point which is that our lives are connected. By lifting all boats, I think
it is very important that we look across these different movements and we think
about how these movements are conjoined. You know, the faculty for example in
California are protesting that the fact that they haven`t had wage increases
since 2006. But in those very same protests, there were students shoulder to
shoulder with the faculty in those protests.

HARRIS-PERRY: Uh-hm.

VASQUEZ-HEILIG: And so, we have to understand with the food service workers that
are on our campuses, that the students, that the professors, they were all in
this same boat in terms of -- and we need to support these movements as allies.

HARRIS-PERRY: But we`re not all -- okay. But we`re not all in the same boat. I
mean, it actually is a different thing to be a marginal food service worker on a
college campus who is fired every summer because of the rules of how that
university relates to that contract. Than it is to be a student who goes home in
this summer. Right? Like, those actually are different experiences that I think
require acknowledging in a meaningful movement.

VASQUEZ-HEILIG: Well, you know, as faculty, I`m now in an administrative role at
California State where the folks run these universities and it is incumbent upon
us as faculty to make those decisions to do right by the workers across the
university, to do right by the students in terms of diversity and inclusion.
Because it is typically faculty that are running these institutions of higher
education. So, it is incumbent upon us to make that social justice happened
across our allies in these institutions.

HARRIS-PERRY: Allyson, I`ll let you way in.

HOBBS: Sure. I think that this is -- what`s so kind of fascinating and so
important about this moment is that it feels like this is a moment where
students are really grappling with what it means to be an active, engaged
citizenry.

HARRIS-PERRY: Uh-hm.

HOBBS: And I think that students and the broader public are really thinking
about what does it mean to live in this a democratic society and what does it
mean to live in a democratic society in 2015 when demographics are changing,
when we`re seeing, you know, tremendous change in our society and I think that
the students who are involved in these movements are both concerned about
symbolism and about structure. And I think that those two can go together but
that we have to be very careful and very sure that in order to really make the
kind of thorough going change that the students are calling for, that those
structural changes, those curricular changes, those changes in terms of adding
more diverse faculty, that those are not getting underestimated.

HARRIS-PERRY: Good. So, we`re going to ask a student when we come back whether
or not any of that is true.

HARRIS-PERRY: Protests by students at the University of Missouri this fall
forced the resignation of the university`s Assistant President Tim Wolfe.
Protests included teach-ins, rallies and an occupy like camp out in a school
quad. One graduate student launched a hunger strike. And then members of the
football team vowed not to play until Wolfe stepped down. And so, Wolfe stepped
down.

And joining us now, live from his hometown of Chicago is Payton Head, president
of the University of Missouri`s students association. Nice to see you, Payton.

PAYTON HEAD, PRESIDENT, MISSOURI STUDENTS ASSOCIATION: Thanks for having me.

HARRIS-PERRY: Okay. So, your Facebook post is part of what`s credited for
helping to galvanize this movement at Mizzou. Talk to me a little bit about what
it is that you and your fellow student activist saw as necessary for changing.

HEAD: Yes. I think for me this was the second incident that I had endured, you
know, where I had been called out on my name. I`d been called the "n" word just
walking through campus. And at that moment, you know, these aren`t single
isolated incidents. So I was over it, that`s why I posed it to Facebook. And it
wasn`t just about myself. You know, it is about my friend who identifies as
trans and walking down the street and being spit on. You know, my friends who
are Muslims, you know, who wear hijabs who are called towel heads and
terrorists, you know, as they`re walking through campus. And it is a problem and
I think that it is time now that we address this as much as possible.

HARRIS-PERRY: So, talk to me about what addressing it looks like.

HEAD: Yes.

HARRIS-PERRY: What are the things that you want from the university, from the
administration, from the faculty to make this a different kind of place for you.

HEAD: I think first and foremost our administrator need to be historians of the
institution as a whole. Students, we are very temporary. We have four years,
five years, you know, if we go on to grad school, maybe six or seven years. But
we`re very temporary. But, you know, we study, and then rise to these leadership
positions, then it is time for us to graduate once we figure out how to operate
the institution. So, I think that it is important now more than ever that our
administrators, they learn about the institution as a whole, not just the good
part and the good traditions but also some of the things that we`ve done wrong
in the past.

HARRIS-PERRY: Uh-hm.

HEAD: Because that gets into that structural violence that exists on campus and
we have to be able to figure out what exactly is put in place for students of
different marginalized communities not to be able to be successful on these
college campuses.

HARRIS-PERRY: I think that`s such an interesting and important point about we
think of students as though they are this kind of permanent reality. Right?

HEAD: Yes.

HARRIS-PERRY: Students are always there. But you`re cycling through typically,
right, much more swiftly than administration and faculty. Josh, let me ask you a
little bit about that. So, I mean, Julian, you were saying faculty run the
place. I think faculty run the place in some ways and sometimes also not in
others. So what then is the role for example of faculty governance in engaging
student protests?

GUILD: I think it varies from campus to campus and it is hard to kind of make a
general statement about that. I think faculty have to stand up and speak out
when they can, speak back to administration. But the faculty also often wear two
hats. So, they`re both administrators and faculty members. And we also have to
talk about contingent faculty members who are or not temporary members of the
faculty and have less institutional power than say senior tenured members of the
faculty.

HARRIS-PERRY: Payton, let me come back to you because, you know, I was at
Mizzou, I had an opportunity to meet you and so many of the other students
briefly. I just want to ask, how the work that you`re all doing on campus is
also related to the work in Ferguson and around the country.

HEAD: Yes. Many of the different student activists at Mizzou, they were in
Ferguson protesting. You know, we have a good number of students that come from
the Ferguson area in St. Louis. And a big majority of our students are from the
St. Louis Metropolitan area. So it is people who are from this area who feel
this pain. And I think one of the things that started the movement on our
university`s campus was when our university decided to not acknowledge what was
happening just two hours away in Ferguson and the effects that it has on the
students who are currently attending the university.

HARRIS-PERRY: I remember so many of you saying that to me that you had the sense
of, look, I`m at college. It is happening down the road. We have an expectation
that our faculty, that our administration will provide a learning context for
this moment.

HEAD: Yes.

HARRIS-PERRY: Yes. I want to say thank you to Payton Head from the Missouri
Student Association who is, however, home for the weekend in Chicago. Thank you
for joining us and thank you for your continued work.

HEAD: Thank you.

HARRIS-PERRY: Up next, at Princeton University, students protest over the racial
climate. The media has largely been focused on one man. He`s been dead for 90
years.

HARRIS-PERRY: Some black students at Princeton University are making their own
demand for mandatory cultural sensitivity training for faculty and for dedicated
black space on campus and they are also demanding that the university remove
President Woodrow Wilson`s name from its buildings. And Wilson was president of
Princeton before going on to become president of the United States. He was also
a die-hard segregationist who praised the KKK and purged black workers from
government jobs. After some student activists organized the walk out and
occupied the President, the current president at Princeton`s office, the
administration now says, it will consider changing the name of the Woodrow
Wilson`s school of public and international affairs. So, Khalil, I mean, as a
historian, where are you on the purging of these names?

MUHAMMAD: If that wasn`t a loaded question.

HARRIS-PERRY: Yes. I know, I`m sorry, you`re at my table.

(LAUGHTER)

MUHAMMAD: So, first I want to acknowledge that there was real damage done by
Woodrow Wilson.

HARRIS-PERRY: Yes.

MUHAMMAD: That is not in the abstraction. And the "Times" covered both in an
op-ed and editorial the significance of that told through the story of John
Davis who worked at the government printing office for 30 years. His grandson,
Gordon Davis, wrote about it. So, I want to put flesh on those bones because it
matters. It also matters what is the institutional speech that we articulate to
represent our values. Because I think at the end of the day, each of these
campuses, Princeton, Yale, Amherst, are going to have to decide what their
values on. And once they decide what their values are based on the democratic
process, based on buy-in and socialization from lots of people. Then they have
to decide what story are we going to tell about ourselves?

Are we going to tell a story that acknowledges Woodrow Wilson in Princeton`s
case of the racism that he perpetuated? Are the alumni promotional literature
and the development officers going to speak to that, when they try to organize
to say that we want to both embrace this president and recognize that we don`t
want to perpetuate the values of exclusion and the denigration of other people
as part of our future? And I just will say --

(CROSSTALK)

I haven`t said that we should or shouldn`t.

HARRIS-PERRY: Yes.

MUHAMMAD: But I said that that is the debate and that is the choice that people
at Princeton or Yale or Amherst have to engage in because in that moment back to
your young people, back to Payton Head, that`s where the debate comes in.
Because young people have to learn in college. How to make an argument. They
have to learn how to defend their ideas.

HARRIS-PERRY: That`s right.

MUHAMMAD: It`s not just that your ideas drop out out of your mouth into the
world and everyone like, oh my God, yes, that`s it. No. You have to come back --

HARRIS-PERRY: That`s right.

MUHAMMAD: -- and revise, and continue to make that case. And that`s how you
change the values of an institution.

HARRIS-PERRY: And so, I`m with you. And yet, I will say Josh, if I go right now
to the Center for African-American Studies website at Princeton University --

(CROSSTALK)

Excuse me. I`m sorry. You all became departments -- okay, the Department of
African-American Studies at Princeton, if I go to their website, the first thing
on their website, on the left hand is a really nice seven- minute piece by you
talking about Wilson`s legacy of structural racism. And so if Khalil`s point is
universities have to address these questions, it does appear --

GUILD: Well, that is all the function of the work that these students have done.
These students have kicked open the doors of this debate. I mean, you were at
Princeton for, you know, several years. Wilson`s name has on been the
international school for public affairs for almost 70 years. And I`ve been at
Princeton now for almost a decade myself -- about his history segregation. And
this is not as Khalil said, incidental racism, this is not his personal views.
These are his active views both as president of Princeton where he discouraged
black applicants, and then as president of the United States, his viewing of
people with African descent, people of Asian descent as intellectually and
inferior.

As you say, you know, helping to segregate the federal bureaucracy and so and so
forth. These students have made that a debate that`s even possible for us to
even have this conversation, that within a period of weeks that the "New York
Times" editorial board would print an editorial that said "The Case against
Woodrow Wilson." That is about an intellectual argument. It is not about
feelings.

HARRIS-PERRY: Right. Yes. And yet for me the argument though -- so, it is an
intellectual argument. And yet taking the names off for me is deeply troubling.
And maybe this is having grown up at the University of Virginia and Mr.
Jefferson`s university, right. So, for all of the things that Wilson is, right?
Jefferson is someone who holds his own children in bondage, in the context of
slavery, real harm done to real humans. And yet we don`t throw out the
declaration of independence. We don`t unnamed it in part because you need those
names there to tell the whole story. I don`t want to sanitize it. Now, for me
the argument is, so what are the untold stories? What are the names that ought
to be on buildings that aren`t?

VASQUEZ-HEILIG: I think if you read the other side`s conversation about this,
they say it is about political correctness but this is really about who should
be honored in our public and intellectual discourse. Does Princeton not have
enough Americans or other alumni or even donors that deserve this public and
intellectual recognition?

HARRIS-PERRY: Allyson, you got to an interesting point about the donors though.
Because that is a somewhat different question. Right? About the capacity of
folks to put their names on buildings that they themselves build. Right? I mean,
I think that`s different than what`s going on with Wilson where it is a kind of
honoring and honorific. Yes.

HOBBS: What I think is dangerous or what I think we have to be really aware of
is that the issue behind the symbolic names and the naming of buildings is that
there are so many segregationists, there are so many slave owners, that we would
really have to do a very thorough going transformation of almost every college
campus if we were to remove their names. And perhaps that`s something that we
should do and perhaps that`s something that universities will decide this is
part of the way we`re going to change, the way we`re going to transform into a
university of the 21st Century. But I think it is wonderful that we learned so
much more about Woodrow Wilson in the past couple weeks. I think a lot of people
thought of him as being an internationalist, being the first person who had
envisioned the League of Nations.

But I think what I`d rather see on -- I definitely want to see the articles
about the black people who were hurt by Woodrow Wilson`s policies and who were
removed from the federal bureaucracy because of his policies. But I also want to
see the articles about the structural problems at the universities.

HARRIS-PERRY: Uh-hm.

HOBBS: I want to see the articles about the problems of tenure. I want to see
the articles about the decline in black applicants. I want to see the articles
about the curricular issues. I want to see the articles about the lower numbers
of faculty members at universities and I think the danger of focusing on the
symbols is that it gives us the sort of neat and tidy thing that we can do and
we can remove the name and then it is like, okay, we`re done.

HARRIS-PERRY: One more symbol to talk about. We`ll go to Harvard Law School when
we come back.

HARRIS-PERRY: In 1991, the first tenured black Harvard law school professor took
a voluntary unpaid leave of absence to protest the possibility for tenured women
professors. His name was Derrick Bell, and he called it a leave of conscience
which he vowed to maintain until the law school granted tenure to at least one
black woman professor. His recognition helped to galvanize the discussion about
the value of diversity and scholarship on a campus where related tensions ran
high. 1991 was also the year the Harvard Law review had its first black
president, a young man named Barack Obama.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

PRES. BARACK OBAMA (D), UNITED STATES: One of the persons who spoke at that
orientation was Professor Bell. And I remember sauntering up to the front and
not giving us a lecture but engaging us in a conversation and speaking the truth
and telling us that (INAUDIBLE) to learn at this place that I`ve carried with me
ever since.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HARRIS-PERRY: Professor Bell never returned to Harvard as his protests
ultimately led to his dismissal. He passed away in 2011 at the age of 80 but not
before seeing the young man on whom he`s made such an impression as first year
orientation elected at president of the United States. A reminder that what is
learned from campus protests can sometimes be translated into meaningful
leadership. What then might be ahead for the young law student currently
demanding a revision of the Harvard Law School seal? The current seal contains a
crest of the Isaac Royall family whose wealth founded Harvard Law School and was
based in the enslavement and trafficking of Africans in 18th century. The
students call themselves "World Must Fall."

Joining us now from Boston, Massachusetts is Derecka Purnell, the Harvard Law
student who took part in the protests in Ferguson, Missouri. So, nice to have
you with us.

DERECKA PURNELL, HARVARD LAW STUDENT: Thank you, Melissa for having me.

HARRIS-PERRY: So, I`m going to ask you a question that I asked the student
leader from Mizzou as well. Make for me a connection between the work that you
have done in communities and in community organizing and in the work that you`ve
been doing on campus.

PURNELL: Absolutely. So what`s interesting is that Harvard law, like is a law
school, and whenever there is a police shooting and black or brown bodies are
dropping to the ground, the society goes up in confusion as to why prosecutors
don`t bring charges against cops. And one reason I think that is, is because we
don`t have proper contextualization in legal education. So my peers are not
being pushed to think critically about the spaces that they currently occupy.
So, all the manifestations of anti- blackness that reside within Harvard also
reside within the real world. So we`re not equipping my peers, my colleagues, my
professors with the tools, with the language to then graduate and then go on to
become prosecutors, they`re going to go on to become Supreme Court justices and,
you know, policymakers.

The President of the United States. And they`re going to go on to occupy these
roles and when they can`t even be pushed to be critical of law school, how can
we expect them to be critical of a criminal justice system that fails black and
brown bodies every day where pushing back against students who call out the
anti-blackness currently in the classroom. I think it is a direct connection.
We`re going to be future lawyers. We`re going to be in this society and we can`t
continue to silence marginalized students at the university because ultimately
we`re going to be representing those type of people as lawyers.

HARRIS-PERRY: In the context of the movement you all have been engaged in there
was an act -- potentially an act of vandalism. I know that the Harvard Law
School investigating right now but of black tape put over the faces of
African-American professors from the law school. And Randall Kennedy, a
professor of the law school, wrote an op-ed for "The Washington Post" in which
he suggested that the work that you and your colleagues are doing is -- the
language he used is, it is a related tendency to indulge in self-diminishment by
displaying an excessive vulnerability to perceive an actual slights and insults.
What`s your response to Professor Kennedy`s op-ed there?

PURNELL: Well, you don`t have enough time for my full response. But I can say, I
can say the problem is that he`s reducing these events to black tape or he`s
reducing these events to a shield. But our fight has never been about that. You
know, our fight has never been reducible to a confederate flag, nor a water
fountain, nor a street boundary, nor a lunch counter. So I find it almost
laughable that we`re reduced these incidents to items, right? And not to a
culture that tolerates or breeds anti-blackness. So, to say that -- I agree with
your point that college is hard, but I think Randall Kennedy is saying, yes,
college is hard to black students but it shouldn`t be hard to white students. It
should be hard to all of us.

HARRIS-PERRY: That`s right.

PURNELL: So when there is a racist act on campus, black students should be heard
but my white colleagues and white peers and white professors and Randall Kennedy
should also be heard. And I diminish it or reduced it to being vulnerable
because of a symbol of a piece of tape.

HARRIS-PERRY: I so appreciate your point there that when I -- that`s my whole
point about college should be hard. Right? So for me, the language that you just
used about pushing intellectually in the classroom, that is such a critical one
for thinking about how those questions of justice play out. Khalil, I know you
wanted in on this.

MUHAMMAD: Well, I do. Because I think that this is a moment where we see again
the relationship of the streets to the campus or the community of what we are
seeing happening on campus. Both of your guests have described both activism
outside the campus and its relationship to inside the campus. One of things that
Black Lives Matters activists have pointed out time and time again, this is not
just about laws, this is about changing beliefs, this is about changing values,
this is about changing attitudes. And I want to give credit to President Drew
Faust at Harvard who has written in an upcoming or current New York review books
article where she talks about we must insert history into our national discourse
and our public policy.

It is not one or the other because the values that we uphold and how we express
them in our deep constructed crests and symbols and they get extractions of the
things and symbols that we put around us, including the confederate flag which
stood -- which hung over the confederate -- of the state house of South
Carolina, was an act of state speech in support ultimately of a history of
violence which could then perpetuate a present and future of violence. And
therefore these symbols matter. But they matter both to how we think of
ourselves collectively at Harvard at the Law School and the public policies that
we are engaged in. And your guests have spoken brilliantly to those connections.

HARRIS-PERRY: Stick with us. I want to say thank you to Derecka Purnell in
Boston. I promise I`m going to get everybody back in. And also, I`m going to let
in President Obama who`s going to weigh in on this question when we come back.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

OBAMA: So when I hear, for example, you know, folks on college campuses saying
we`re not going to allow somebody to speak on our campus -- because we disagree
with their ideas or because we feel threatened by their ideas. You know, I think
that`s a recipe for dogmatism and I think you`re not going to be as effective.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HARRIS-PERRY: That was President Obama speaking with ABC`s George Stephanopoulos
on November 12th about protests at the University of Missouri. Julian, I want to
let you in on this.

VASQUEZ-HEILIG: You know, at first I think diversity, equity and inclusion in
these conversations is not happenstance. It has to be an institutional priority
and has to be priority for us in our classrooms, has to be a priority for us in
our hiring. That`s one of the first things to say. I also think that our
classrooms are our laboratories of our national discussions of today and the
future. We are training the future leaders of our country. So, I think it`s a
very weighty responsibility that we have as faculty. It`s not just that we`re
researchers, not just that we`re teachers but we are training the leaders of our
nation.

HARRIS-PERRY: And for me, I think this is part of the argument that I heard
Dereck Vicking (ph) from HLS, from Harvard Law School is, for me then the value
-- the reason I want you to read, the voice isn`t for cultural competency, is
because you shouldn`t graduate from college having not encountered "The Voice."
But similarly, I also want you to read libertarian writers. This is part of the
idea of being able to make these discursive arguments. When you hear the
President say, you got to listen to everybody, for me it is less about the
speakers on campus and more about the syllabi on campus.

VASQUEZ-HEILIG: You know, a reason that they based on evidence, that is the
vibrancy of our democracy.

HOBBS: Right.

HARRIS-PERRY: If and when it happens.

HOBBS: And that also really deals with the issue of faculty diversity because we
know studies have shown that the more diverse faculty that we have, the more
diversity we have in terms of those syllabi, in terms of which writers are
represented and importantly in terms of teaching also about the role of women,
the role of gay and lesbian men and women, the role of transgender people. I
mean, you know, that it is really important that we think about faculty
diversity in very broad ways so that we`re offering syllabi and we`re preparing
students for a very diverse multi- racial, multi-cultural society.

HARRIS-PERRY: So Joshua, how on the one hand do you hold intention like this
need to create future leaders who are capable of this kind of broad discourse,
without moving to a let`s get sensitivity training for all -- like I heard, you
know, sensitivity training for all staff and faculty and I thought -- like that
gives me a little bit of angst to hear that argument.

GUILD: Well, I think there is a way that students are experiencing all kinds of
incidents of marginalization, of alienation in their day to day. Right? I mean,
some can separate the classroom also from what`s happening just, you know, in
your interactions with the financial aid office or with janitor or whomever.
Right? I think there is a way that those folks aren`t always getting the kinds
of preparation to deal with diversity and increasingly diverse in many
instances, student population. So I think that`s one thing to say.

But absolutely we need to use our classrooms as the space to introduce these
concepts. I mean, you know, what`s heartening to me about Princeton, in my
African-American history lecture course, African-American history, every year I
give this lecture on World War I and we talk about Woodrow Wilson and invariably
students come away after class, I did not know that about Woodrow Wilson. Right?
And then we see those same kids now engaging in this protest. Right? The
director --

HARRIS-PERRY: Oh, it was you! And now we know. Thank you to Khalil Muhammad and
to Joshua Guild and to Allyson Hobbs and to Julian Heilig.

And up next, how much history do you know about African-American cookbooks? Do
you know why there are so few? The answer after this.

HARRIS-PERRY: This Thanksgiving, my husband and I, like many home cooks
throughout the country made and served dishes we learned to love and make from
the black men and women who raised and nurture and fed us. Now, my specialties
include mac and cheese and sweet potato pie and for James it`s the unparalleled
Perry Gumbo. In truth, African-Americans have helped forge this country`s
culinary tradition. But looking at the American cookbook canon you might not
know it. Of the 100,000 recipe collections printed in the country, only 200 are
credited to African-American authors.

But food writer Toni Tipton Martin is working to change all of that. She spent
decades collecting and preserving African-American cookbooks showcasing the
position and artistry of the African-American culinary tradition. And now she`s
sharing her collection with her new book "The Jemima Code: Two Centuries of
African-American Cookbooks."

And joining me now is Toni Tipton-Martin. Nice to have you.

TONI TIPTON-MARTIN, AUTHOR, "THE JEMIMA CODE": Nice to be here. Thank you for
having me.

HARRIS-PERRY: So, talk about the title of this book. What are you signaling with
this?

MARTIN: Well, you know, what`s really interesting is, the beautiful way that
this title dovetails with everything that you`ve been talking about already with
your guests, and that is that we`ve had this symbol in the United States that
wraps together a bunch of characteristics for African- American women to
telegraph that they were intelligent, competent cooks in the kitchen as long as
their face was in the cover of a package, right, for pancakes flour. But when it
comes time to attribute those same kind of proficiencies at the cookbook level,
those voices and images were missing. And so it started for me as a search from
my grandmother on the pages of southern cookbook history has evolved into a
social justice project, right, to be able to, as you were saying earlier,
reclaim that symbol as one of value and a woman and role model from which we can
learn.

HARRIS-PERRY: You know, it also feels to me like part of "The Jemima Code" is
that cooking has to be done for a white family. Right? It`s not about valuing
the cooking that so many of our mothers and grandmothers and fathers and
grandfathers did for us in our household and then often passed on right through
oral tradition as opposed to by writing it down in cookbooks.

MARTIN: Yes. So I think one of the really important messages of this cookbook,
having these books all aggregated into one collection is that it does show it
demonstrates the foods that we were cooking when the resources permit it.

HARRIS-PERRY: Uh-hm.

MARTIN: And within our community, we understand that there were many, many, many
families for whom the resources permitted. Right? So to cook a really elaborate
lovely brunch or to serve a banquet does not mean that you`re only cooking for
white people. It can be very much so what we`ve cooked in our own homes and our
communities and our restaurants and our churches and our hotels. And so what I`d
like to challenge people to think about is the fact that we know very little
about what today`s modern celebrity chefs cook at home, right?

HARRIS-PERRY: Uh-hm.

MARTIN: We honor them for the food that they cook at work, on the food network
shows. But when it comes to African-Americans, there`s this tendency to
segregate our cooking into the food of the cabin or survival cooking. And I
always really want to be really clear that we want to retain and acknowledge and
honor our ancestors for the ingenuity of cooking with very limited resources.
But that, you know, that doesn`t contain the totality of our culinary
experience. And so these books help us validate their proficiencies in a ways
that mainstream media nor oral history can really justify to the broader
community.

HARRIS-PERRY: Do cookbooks still matter in a world where people will Google a
recipe, you know, five minutes before dinner? Does that still matter to collect
recipes together as a whole?

MARTIN: I think so because again one of the things that we`re able to see
through these cookbooks is that cookbooks contain more than just instructions
for recipes and the list of ingredients one would use. Right? This is a space
where women, especially women who had fewer opportunities for artistic
expression could record the community activities. Many of these books in
particular have advertisements contained in them which show us the economic
opportunities that were precedent for African-Americans and moving themselves
into the middle class. So, the cookbook isn`t a genre that records history and
community as well as recipes.

HARRIS-PERRY: What was on your Thanksgiving table this week?

MARTIN: Oh, all of those traditional things that you described. Macaroni and
cheese, the turkey, collard greens. We do make some adjustments but we also
realize that that`s the one time of year that we`re going to eat that heavily.

HARRIS-PERRY: Right.

MARTIN: So we`re largely vegetarian the rest of the time. We really knock it out
on Thanksgiving.

HARRIS-PERRY: Yes. You know, this year I started gardening for the first time
and so I actually went out on Thanksgiving morning, the day before Thanksgiving
morning and got my own collards and kale out of the garden. And it was a really
satisfying experience to actually do a garden to table in my own yard.

So, I want to say thank you to Toni Tipton Martin in Austin, Texas. Don`t forget
to check out her book in stores now. "The Jemima Code: Two Centuries of
African-American Cookbooks." It`s a lovely, lovey text.

And that is our show for today. Thanks to you at home for watching. I`ll see you
next Saturday at 10:00 a.m. Eastern. Well, right now it`s time for a preview of
"WEEKENDS WITH ALEX WITT." Hi, Alex.

ALEX WITT, MSNBC HOST, "WEEKENDS WITH ALEX WITT": Hello, thank you for not
busting me that I just sat down --

(CROSSTALK)

All of your desk as they`re leaving the studio going, great job. Anyway, now I`m
here anyway. We`re going to talk about this. The breaking news. We have climate
change protesters meeting with teargas in Paris just as the President heads to
that city for a meeting with world leaders. You`re going to hear what it was
like to get caught up in all that commotion.

Highways and airports getting crowded by the minute, but there`s one big
obstacle on the way today for millions of travelers.

And new still pictures from the scene of the Tamir Rice shooting in Cleveland.
What they reveal and what could be behind the timing of their release. Don`t go
anywhere. I`ll be right back.

THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE
UPDATED.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 112901cb.451

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript

                       Copyright 2015 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              Copyright 2015 MSNBC


                               4 of 24 DOCUMENTS


                                     MSNBC

                            November 30, 2015 Monday

                           SHOW: HARDBALL 5:00 PM EST

The Trump Show; Planned Parenthood Under Attack

BYLINE: Chris Matthews, Katy Tur, Howard Fineman, Kathleen Parker, Eugene
Robinson

GUESTS: Fergus Cullen, Laura Bassett, Bob Cusack

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 8771  words



HIGHLIGHT: Does the Trump voter care if he`s telling the truth or the attitude
he`s selling? Did the heated anti-abortion rhetoric on the right contribute to
the deadly shooting at a Colorado clinic?


CHRIS MATTHEWS, HOST: Does it matter what he says?

Let`s play HARDBALL.

Good evening. I`m Chris Matthews back in Washington.

Does the Trump voter out there care if he`s telling the truth or is it the
attitude that he`s selling? When the billionaire says, for example, that
President Obama is a foreigner and therefore constitutionally banned from the
presidency, does the Trump supporter believe that, or does he simply hate Obama
enough to ditto the dishonesty?

When Trump says he saw people in New Jersey cheering the fall of the trade
towers, does the Trump supporter think he`s solid or does he simply like the
guy`s "screw you" attitude to people who try to keep honest track of such
things? And does the very fact that reporters say one thing and Trump another,
that his followers double down in his defense, that media criticism actually
verifies what Trump`s just said?

And what if he makes fun of the reporter`s physical handicap? Is that every bit
as OK as making fun of a female candidate`s face? Are people so committed to
Trump`s nationalist message, they don`t -- or they can`t -- they don`t care what
he says as long as he snarls at the big shots while he says it?

Katy Tur covers the Trump campaign for NBC News. Fergus Cullen is a former
chairman of the New Hampshire Republican Party and author of "Granite Steps," a
new history of the New Hampshire primary -- I got to read that one -- Howard
Fineman -- Howard will read it, too -- Howard Fineman`s global editorial
director of the HuffingtonPost and an MSNBC political analyst .

On "MEET THE PRESS" yesterday, Trump refused to take back his statement that he
saw thousands -- I love the way he said that, thousands - - of Muslims in New
Jersey cheering the attacks of 9/11. Let`s listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CHUCK TODD, MODERATOR, "MEET THE PRESS": Where did you see this?

DONALD TRUMP: Chuck, I saw it on television. So did many other people. And
many...

CHUCK TODD: In Jersey City...

DONALD TRUMP: ... many people -- I`ve had hundreds.

CHUCK TODD: You saw Jersey City...

In the area. I`ve also heard Paterson (ph). Excuse me.

TODD: OK.

TRUMP: I`ve heard Jersey City. I`ve heard Paterson. It was 14 years ago. But I
saw it on television. I saw clips. And so did many other people. Now, "The
Washington Post" also wrote about tailgate parties! We`re looking for other
articles and we`re looking for other clips. And I wouldn`t be surprised if we
found them, Chuck.

But for some reason, they`re not that easy to come by. I saw it. So many people
saw it, Chuck. And so why would I take it back? I`m not going to take it back.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: Well, as "The Washington Post" fact checker reported this week, or
last week, there was video taken overseas, of course, showing Palestinians on
the West Bank celebrating the attacks. While Trump may have confused that
footage in his memory, no video has emerged showing what Trump (INAUDIBLE) Trump
described as happening in New Jersey.

And today, New Jersey governor Chris Christie also told reporters that it never
happened.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE (R-NJ), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I was there on September 11.
I wasn`t across the river in New York City. I was there. And not only myself but
the state attorney general at the time, John Farmer (ph), good, smart, you know,
Republican, has said the same thing that I`ve said, that it didn`t happen.

And you know, the worst part of his claim is that he says he saw it on
television. Well, no one has been able to unearth any video of any such thing
happening. If it was widely enough shown on network television in New York City,
you can usually find that video fairly quickly.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: (INAUDIBLE) back. Let me go right now to Katy Tur on this because you
follow the guy. And I know this is -- you don`t like to go beyond reporting to
interpretation. But when you report and you see people out there whose mouths
are open as they listen to this stuff he puts out, do they, first of all --
let`s start with something, the original sin of the guy.

Do they believe that President Obama is a usurper who snuck into this country
illegally from overseas, is not a legal citizen, was born to somewhere else, to
foreign parents, I suppose, and that he somehow snuck the American presidency
away from us?

Do they believe that when they say it to pollsters? Because they do say it to
pollsters.

KATY TUR, NBC CORRESPONDENT: A number of them do believe that. I wouldn`t say
all of them believe that. But I think a lot of them do not like this president,
do not feel that they`ve been representing -- or he`s been representing their
views.

MATTHEWS: Yes, that`s different -- I`m talking about a fact question. Do they
believe he`s a foreign usurper who snuck into the country...

TUR: Some of them do.

MATTHEWS: ... illegally and somehow became president?

TUR: Some of them do. Some of them do. Not all of them, but some of them do
express that and some of them do believe that. I wouldn`t go so far to say that
all of them at Trump rallies believe Obama was born overseas and that he`s a
Muslim and that he`s not out (ph) here (ph) or he somehow usurped the
presidency, as you said.

Some of them believe that, but not all of them do, but I do think most of them,
the vast majority of them, don`t think that he is the president that they voted
for and they don`t think that...

MATTHEWS: Well, of course not. Well, they didn`t vote for him, first of all.

TUR: Well, they didn`t vote for him. They don`t think he`s representing their
values. And I think...

(CROSSTALK)

TUR: ... Donald Trump is going to push back against that.

MATTHEWS: So it`s -- so you think I`m right when I say it`s the attitude they
like, his attitude of complete contempt for the liberal establishment.

TUR: It is. And I think it is -- I think it doesn`t really matter what he says,
as you`ve been talking about. I think it`s an unconditional love they have for
him. I think regardless of what Trump says, they`re going to keep continuing --
they`re going to continue to support him.

Even though the pastors that I spoke with today, some of the pastors, said it
doesn`t matter what he says about Black Lives Matters (sic), protesters, doesn`t
matter what he tweets about crime stats...

MATTHEWS: Yes.

TUR: ... that may be bogus. They like him, no matter what, because they think
he`s going to create jobs in this country and they think he`s going to be a
strong leader.

MATTHEWS: OK. Well...

TUR: It`s unconditional love. It`s the kind of thing that you hope to find in
your life, and Donald Trump found it with throngs of supporters across the
country!

(LAUGHTER)

MATTHEWS: Anyway, by the way, just to check our own facts, in the September
CNN/Opinion Research poll, 43 percent of Republicans -- not just Obama -- Trump
people, 43 percent of Republicans say they believe President Obama is a Muslim,
just to get that fact, as they (INAUDIBLE)

Howard, it sounds like Erich Siegel (ph) here, "Love means never having to say
you`re sorry."

(LAUGHTER)

HOWARD FINEMAN, HUFFINGTON POST GLOBAL EDITORIAL DIR., MSNBC POLITICAL ANALYST:
Well...

MATTHEWS: We grew up with that!

FINEMAN: I covered a Trump rally in South Carolina with Katy, as a matter of
fact, and I think she would agree with me that to some extent, that rally and
all Trump rallies are a little bit like -- they`re a little bit like rock
concerts and they`re a little bit like revival meetings. They`re secular
political revival meetings, where it`s about belief and it`s about faith that
because Donald Trump is willing to say anything, no matter how obnoxious -- the
more obnoxious and the more accusatory it is, the more they believe in him
because they feel culturally shackled. They feel like they`re in chains.

MATTHEWS: I`m with you. I`m with you.

FINEMAN: And he is the guy who can by the sheer force of will, saying the most
politically incorrect things, saying the most unsupportable things...

MATTHEWS: Prove something.

FINEMAN: He is such an outsider that he`s in a different reality.

MATTHEWS: OK, let me go to Fergus...

FINEMAN: He`s in a different reality.

MATTHEWS: I take New Hampshire seriously. Maybe not necessarily the newspaper
that just made the endorsement of Chris Christie, but I do take the state very
seriously. It`s of sound mind and body, as far as I can tell.

Will they be put off by a guy making fun of another guy`s physical handicap?

FERGUS CULLEN, FMR. CHAIR, N.H. GOP: Sure. Two thirds of the Republican Party
does. And I hope people aren`t under the misimpression that Donald Trump`s views
are shared broadly within the Republican Party. Look, there`s about a third of
the voters who either support him or are at least entertained by him and think
that this is harmless fun.

But two thirds of the party recognizes this is not harmless fun. It`s doing
terrible damage to the Republican Party brand, and they`re not going to support
him in the end. You know, I`m reminded a lot of...

MATTHEWS: Wait a minute. Wait a minute. I want to call you on the numbers...

CULLEN: ... the 1996 race...

MATTHEWS: I like your speech. I like the attitude, but just the attitude because
the numbers aren`t right because Trump is now leading by 2 to 1 over Rubio,
who`s in second place in New Hampshire. So you say they don`t like him. Yes,
you`re right. Technically, 26 percent is only one quarter, but he`s the leader.
How do you explain it in New Hampshire?

CULLEN: Well, you know, back in 1996, Pat Buchanan won the New Hampshire primary
but with 28 percent of the vote because the mainstream Republican vote was
hopelessly fractured between Bob Dole, Lamar Alexander, and Steve Forbes coming
in fourth that year.

But as soon as -- the day after the primary, Bob Dole came downstairs, reframed
the race as a contest between the mainstream and the extreme, started beating
Pat Buchanan 2 to 1 in primary after primary and had the nomination sewed up. It
took Pat Buchanan winning to unite the Republican Party in favor of Bob Dole at
that time.

MATTHEWS: So we got to wait next year or this -- it is next year, technically --
for Wednesday to know what happened on Tuesday. We can`t go by election results
Tuesday night as to who actually won? I mean, if Trump wins...

CULLEN: Well, it`s going to take more than one...

MATTHEWS: ... the New Hampshire primary, are you going to give that same speech?

CULLEN: It`s going to take more than one caucus and more than one primary to
nominate a candidate this cycle. And people in New Hampshire...

MATTHEWS: You`re not selling that primary...

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: Sir, you are not selling the Republican primary in New Hampshire if
you say it doesn`t matter.

CULLEN: No, it`s going to winnow the field...

MATTHEWS: And that`s what you`re saying.

CULLEN: ... considerably.

MATTHEWS: Oh.

CULLEN: There are going to be good candidates who are going to finish fifth or
sixth...

MATTHEWS: OK.

CULLEN: ... and they`re going to be out of the race after that.

MATTHEWS: OK.

CULLEN: But more than one or two candidates is going to survive New Hampshire
this year, and that`s OK.

MATTHEWS: You must have loved it when Bill Clinton claimed victory up there and
called himself the comeback kid when he came in 8 points behind Paul Tsongas.

Anyway, in defending his remarks about New Jersey Muslims -- I don`t know if he
ever saw one -- Trump has cited a 2001 article in "The Washington Post" that
stated that law enforcement authorities detained and questioned a number of
people who were allegedly seen celebrating the attacks. Those allegations were
later debunked, and the author of the piece, Serge Kovaleski, has since said he
does not remember any celebrations actually taking place.

And now Trump has been under fire for appearing -- well, that`s being put it
nice (sic) -- to mock Kovaleski`s physical disability, a condition that limits
the movement of his arms.

Here`s what -- here`s that clip of Trump last Tuesday night.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: Now, the poor guy -- you got to see this guy. Oh! I don`t know what I
said! Oh! I don`t remember! He`s going, I don`t remember! Oh, maybe that`s what
I said!

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: Well, in response, Kovaleski told "The Washington Post," "The sad part
about it is, it didn`t in the slightest bit jar or surprise me that Donald Trump
would do something this low-rent," what a great phrase, "given his track
record."

And "The New York Times" where Kovaleski now works, they issued this statement.
"We`re outraged that he would ridicule the physical appearance of one of our
reporters." Trump on Saturday said he does not know Kovaleski, even though
Kovaleski covered Trump in the `80s and `90s, and he asked "The New York Times"
for an apology. Trump did.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: The person has a disability. And the person said, I know him, I know him,
but you know -- and I said, When? In the 1980s. The 1980s. That`s a long time --
30, 35 years? That`s a long time ago.

But I don`t -- believe me, I don`t know. Now he`s going, Well, he knew me and we
were on first name -- give me a break. Give me a break. And the problem is, he`s
using what he`s got to such a horrible degree. I think it`s disgraceful, the way
-- and I think "The New York Times," frankly, should give me an apology. I do.

(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)

TRUMP: I think they should give me -- and I`d love to have the apology before
they go out of business. I would love that.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: OK. OK. There we have some kind of proof there. Katy, you`ve watched
those arm gestures of Donald Trump all the time. I know that they`re expansive.
They`re reaching out in both direction. They`re sort of like Bernie Sanders.
They both do the same thing -- What am I? Am I serious? (INAUDIBLE) with me or
with me not? He`s doing it all the time.

In this case, he does this thing. You know, he`s doing this thing about a guy
whose arms are constrained in that way. What`s the general assessment? Was he
making fun of that reporter or not?

TUR: I don`t think anybody in the crowd in South Carolina got that he could have
been making fun of Serge Kovaleski. I think that that was something that those
who knew, who know Serge Kovaleski, saw.

And it wouldn`t be -- if it is true, it wouldn`t be the first time that he`s
been at least accused of mocking somebody`s disability. Back in the interview I
did with him in July, he said that Charles Krauthammer can`t even buy himself a
pair of pants. And this is after Krauthammer called him a rodeo clown. And
Krauthammer is in a wheelchair.

MATTHEWS: I know.

TUR: So he was accused of it back then. So it does say something that he keeps
getting accused of this stuff. At that same rally, he did an impression of the
CNN reporter. So Donald Trump might not want to say that he`s doing
impressions...

MATTHEWS: OK...

TUR: ... of reporters and might not want to say that he remembers Serge
Kovaleski, but I think circumstances point in a different direction, frankly.

MATTHEWS: Let me go to Fergus real fast. Do you think Republicans are any
different than Democrats in feeling a little sympathy for people with handicaps,
or are they less sympathetic?

CULLEN: Oh, I think...

MATTHEWS: As a party.

CULLEN: ... absolutely, they are. I mean, Trump`s behavior is indefensible. It`s
outrageous. It`s offensive to lots of people. I think a lot of responsible,
reasonable Republicans are going to start calling him out publicly on these
kinds of things, saying this kind of behavior is not acceptable. We wouldn`t
accept it in an elementary school...

MATTHEWS: OK, Fergus...

CULLEN: ... and we`re not going to accept it in a presidential candidate,
either.

MATTHEWS: Fergus, I really like your wing of the Republican Party. And Howard, I
hope it still exists. Anyway, Howard?

FINEMAN: Just very quickly -- Chris Christie was endorsed by Joe McQuaid in "The
Manchester Union Leader." I know Joe very well. I know the power of that paper
that still remains.

Basically, Christie has been hired by "The Union Leader" as the prosecutor to
try to destroy Donald Trump in New Hampshire. And Christie will be covered to a
fair-thee-well if he does it, if he`s willing to take on that role. That`s the
role he`s been asked to play by "The Union Leader."

MATTHEWS: This is interpretation or is this...

FINEMAN: This is my interpretation, knowing Joe and having talked to him
about...

MATTHEWS: Joe will not...

FINEMAN: ... who he picked.

MATTHEWS: He will not do what he often does in continuing to endorse him day
after day after day unless he does that job.

FINEMAN: I think the more coverage -- Christie will get the full backing and
full coverage to the extent he`s willing to do...

MATTHEWS: If he whacks.

FINEMAN: ... what he was picked to do...

MATTHEWS: He has to whack Trump.

FINEMAN: ... because I know that McQuaid doesn`t like Trump, doesn`t trust
Trump...

MATTHEWS: OK...

FINEMAN: ... and thinks he`s a phony.

MATTHEWS: Howard Fineman, this is a contract.

(LAUGHTER)

MATTHEWS: Anyway, thank you, Katy Tur. This is -- God, there`s a bit of news.
Whack the guy, or you will lose all your coverage! Anyway, Katy Tur, love your
coverage. Fergus, nice to meet you. I do with that party that you talk about
exists. I hope it does. Anyway, Howard Fineman...

CULLEN: It does.

MATTHEWS: Coming up -- the politics of Planned Parenthood. This is getting
nasty. Did the heated anti-abortion rhetoric on the right contribute to the
deadly shooting at a Colorado clinic? Did it? And if so, what should we do about
it? And that`s ahead.

Plus, 13 of 14 Democratic female senators, women, are standing alongside Hillary
Clinton tonight to show their support for her presidential bid -- 13 out of 14.
Guess who was the holdout? Guess. Guess. Elizabeth Warren.

And on the Republican side, Chris Christie`s gaining steam up in New Hampshire
-- I guess. He`s still in seventh place. And now Donald Trump has taken notice.
Could Christie be the establishment favorite, as Howard just said, to beat back
Trump, Cruz and the rest of the wild bunch?

And finally, "Let Me Finish" tonight with the stuff dreams are made of, a 21st
century train ride across our country.

And this is HARDBALL, the place for politics.

MATTHEWS: Well, President Obama, of course, is in Paris this week along with
nearly 150 other world leaders with talks under way already to find a global
agreement on climate change. He held meetings with the prime minister of India
and the president of China.

In a speech this morning, the president urged global leaders to get together as
an act of defiance in the wake of those Paris attacks.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We salute the people of Paris for
insisting this crucial conference go on, an act of defiance that proves nothing
will deter us from building the future we want for our children. What greater
rejection for those who would tear down our world than marshaling our best
efforts to save it?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: Well, President Obama also met with Russian president Vladimir Putin.
The two discussed the situation in Syria, as well as relations with Turkey just
days after that country shot down a Russian fighter jet.

We`ll be right back.

MATTHEWS: Welcome back to HARDBALL. Well, there`s been potent political rhetoric
leveled at Planned Parenthood, of course, for months. In the aftermath of the
killing of three people at a Colorado Planned Parenthood clinic on Friday, some
question whether words can do more than just hurt.

The man accused of conducting the rampage -- there he is -- Robert Lewis Dear,
appeared in court this afternoon. His motive is still not clear, but two law
enforcement sources with knowledge of the case told NBC News that the suspect
rambled out -- rambled on about President Obama, politics and abortion saying,
No more baby parts, when he was taken into custody after the standoff with
police.

Here are several GOP presidential candidates` reactions to those who question
whether tough talk on Planned Parenthood might have been related to the Colorado
killings.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CECILE RICHARDS, PLANNED PARENTHOOD PRES.: I`ve never seen the kind of rhetoric
that we are seeing from presidential candidates that are demeaning not only
Planned Parenthood but woman who go to Planned Parenthood, doctors at Planned
Parenthood, even the fact that there is safe and legal abortion in America.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: Well, the president of Planned Parenthood feels her organization
remains a target and wants the talk tamped down. We just saw her there. That was
Cecile Richards.

Anyway, joining me right now are two Pulitzer Prize-winning columnists from "The
Washington Post" -- both of them, in fact -- Kathleen Parker and Eugene
Robinson, who`s also an MSNBC political analyst.

Let`s talk about this -- first a woman. We`re talking abortion rights. We`re
talking a tragedy that took place at Planned Parenthood. It seems to me the two
things we know, this assailant, killer, went to Planned Parenthood. He knew
where he was going. He went to a particular place. Most men wouldn`t know where
a Planned Parenthood is, unless they looked it up in the phone book, even if
they did that.

KATHLEEN PARKER, MSNBC POLITICAL ANALYST: I wouldn`t know.

MATTHEWS: And, secondly -- and, secondly, they wouldn`t have been focusing on no
more baby parts without some mentally connecting that to what they just did,
kill three people.

Your thoughts.

PARKER: All right, look, Chris, I think he obviously made a connection and went
there to kill people, because, obviously...

MATTHEWS: Why?

PARKER: Well, I don`t know why. And you don`t either.

MATTHEWS: Well, why did he say baby parts?

PARKER: Because he`s been hearing about these videos which showed that they were
harvesting certain parts that would be used for fetal research, tissues to be
used for research.

MATTHEWS: No, they were to be put on sale. That is what the video showed.

PARKER: That`s what the first couple of videos indicated when they talked about,
how much can you get for this piece of flesh or how much can you get for this...

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: He could have gotten the idea as a reasonable viewer that Planned
Parenthood is in the business of selling...

(CROSSTALK)

PARKER: He`s not a reasonable person. He`s deranged.

MATTHEWS: But a reasonable person could have gotten that idea from that video.

PARKER: Absolutely. But most people don`t go out and shoot people because of it.

And, also, by the way, if we are going to go that route, then we have to also
concede that violent movies make people commit violence at higher rates, that
pornography results in higher rape statistics.

MATTHEWS: Does it?

PARKER: Well, beats me. But we have never done a cause and effect with those
things. We decline to do that because we don`t think things are quite that
simple, that there are a multitude of factors.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: Because nobody ever rapes somebody because somebody just saw a movie.

(CROSSTALK)

PARKER: I know you want to blame the Republicans for this.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: I`m asking about what facts we know.

(CROSSTALK)

PARKER: All we know is that he did go into the Planned Parenthood with intent
and he did kill people.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: And he said afterwards, no more baby parts.

PARKER: Well, we heard that. Did we hear anything else he said?

I`m not defending this guy. Please do not put me in the position of defending
him or any of the rhetoric I think is overheated.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: You say it`s wrong to assume causality.

PARKER: I don`t think you can assume -- well, we don`t assume anything, because
we are journalists and we don`t do that. But you cannot say because of A, then
B. There is more to the equation.

MATTHEWS: OK. Gene, your thoughts?

EUGENE ROBINSON, MSNBC POLITICAL ANALYST: Well, I actually agree with
Kathleen...

PARKER: Thank you.

MATTHEWS: Be careful here.

ROBINSON: ... in that we cannot...

PARKER: Another rational person.

ROBINSON: We know four words of what apparently was a much longer soliloquy he
gave to the police, if indeed he was ranting about abortion and he was ranting
about President Obama and whatever, as there was some indication.

Then we still can`t draw a straight line, but maybe a crooked line. Maybe
certainly there was influence there. One thing we do know is, he had a gun. We
know that this guy seems to be wacko and he had a gun.

And it does, I think, implicate once again gun laws and gun policy in this
country.

PARKER: Well, if we want to talk about toning down the rhetoric across the
board, then we absolutely have an argument to make on that count, but across the
board, when it comes to immigrants and refugees and every -- a number of
subjects that have suddenly become Kryptonite for the political arena.

It`s -- there is a definite case to be made for that. But I think, Chris, you
have to be very careful, because the next cause and effect is the Republicans
caused this man to be crazy and to go kill people.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: Well, that is a partisan argument.

I think when people would walk away with is -- just a few years ago in this
city, we saw the Holocaust Memorial attacked by a guy who shot the guard on his
way in, killed him. We can assume that guy had an attitude about Jews.

PARKER: Totally.

MATTHEWS: See, you can make that assumption.

PARKER: Right.

MATTHEWS: When you go after a Planned Parenthood facility, a clinic, you can
assume he had a certain attitude about Planned Parenthood.

PARKER: Oh, I think that`s unquestionable.

MATTHEWS: And you can assume he had certain information, accurate or not, about
what they do there.

And his information, which he spilled out right there on the scene apparently
after he was picked up, was that they sell baby parts. This is to me not
causality, but clear, obviously, connection, whatever you want to call it.

ROBINSON: Yes, you can call it a connection. You can now -- was rhetoric a part
of his motivation? Was it just seeing the videos? Was it his anti-abortion views
or was he a person who was allowed....

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: If I were a prosecutor in this case, I would bring up those words in
court.

ROBINSON: Of course you would.

PARKER: Of course you would.

(CROSSTALK)

ROBINSON: Of course you would.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: This is court. Anyway, here`s some -- I`m sorry, Gene.

ROBINSON: No, no, no, I was going to make a further connection on the gun issue,
which again we kind of just skip past.

But the gun issue is there. And then we can get into rhetoric. For example, we
can get into the position that Second Amendment absolutists would have,
apparently, now that everybody ought to be armed and that`s how you stop a guy
with a gun, right?

So, are they now going to argue that abortionists should all have guns?

(CROSSTALK)

PARKER: No, for the record, I want to say I agree with Gene here, too. But,
listen, we have to keep guns out of the hands of deranged people.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: It`s hard to pick them out when they live in mountain hideouts.

PARKER: Well, you can certainly do background checks.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: This guy lived pretty much on his lone -- anyway, here are some of the
Republican presidential candidates. They are quite not as pleasant as these two
people.

(LAUGHTER)

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: I don`t get this. It must be a "Washington Post" quest here -- anyway,
that the rhetoric against Planned Parenthood might have been connected to the
Colorado killings. Let`s watch.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I think any hateful rhetoric
districted at anyone from any source is too much. It`s something that we need to
get away from.

We have to stop allowing ourselves to be pushed into different corners and then
throwing hateful barbs at each other.

CARLY FIORINA (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: This is so typical of the left to
immediately begin demonizing the messenger because they don`t agree with the
message. The vast majority of Americans agree what Planned Parenthood is doing
is wrong.

SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I will say it`s unfortunate to see
so many folks in the press bending over backwards to try to use this horrible
crime to advance a political agenda.

This man is a despicable murderer and he should be punished to the full extent
of the law. But none of that changes the reality that Planned Parenthood is in
the business of buying and selling the body parts of unborn children. None of
that changes the reality that Planned Parenthood was caught on video apparently
committing a pattern of felonies.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: Anyway, I want to get to Cruz there before I do anything else. Cruz
says they`re in the business of selling and buying -- buying and selling body
parts.

(CROSSTALK)

PARKER: Yes. Well, that is completely false.

MATTHEWS: You think that might encourage somebody, some guy out in the hills
right now who thinks like this guy to do something, or not?

PARKER: I think that somebody who is inclined to do that sort of thing might
say, well, look, he`s a smart guy, he`s running for president, he`s justifying
it.

MATTHEWS: Why is he saying it? Why did Cruz just say that?

PARKER: I don`t know. I can`t even really fathom.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: Does he believe it? Buying and selling.

(CROSSTALK)

ROBINSON: Buying and selling. Buying and selling.

PARKER: I think he`s smarter than that. Surely he Googles and he would have to
find out that that is a falsehood.

And, of course, Carly Fiorina did that sort of exaggerated description during
one of the debates. It was just too horrible. I didn`t even want to -- I don`t
even really want to repeat it.

ROBINSON: And then Ben Carson, of course, who is against all harsh rhetoric,
referred to Syrian refugees as rabid dogs.

(CROSSTALK)

PARKER: It was an analogy, I think.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: I got to make this point.

What is great about this country is that even people, the most pro- life people
in the world -- and really think there is a difference, essential difference
between abortion and gunning people down, essential difference.

PARKER: Of course.

MATTHEWS: And they do believe it. And, therefore, they all see this as a
tragedy.

PARKER: Of course.

MATTHEWS: But some people`s words are encouraging this kind of behavior.

And I`m sorry that -- I heard it in the guy`s voice. I`m not as kind as you,
Gene. I heard him say no more baby parts. To me, that was motive. And if I went
into court, I would nail this guy -- anyway, thank -- on hate crimes. Anyway,
well, it`s already murder. What do you need a hate crime for this case?

(CROSSTALK)

PARKER: Well, we are not in court. I thought we were talking politic. And
politics is taking us into a realm that I think is off limits.

MATTHEWS: I think this thing -- the people who are pro-life in this case jumped
too quickly in attacking what they thought the liberal media was going to do.
Let the liberal media blame the bad guy and the enemies of Planned Parenthood
first and then attack.

Don`t go first, because when you go first, you make people think, like this guy,
you`re enjoying it, like Carly Fiorina seems to be.

Thank you, Kathleen, for coming on.

PARKER: Thank you, Chris.

MATTHEWS: And, Gene, I don`t have to thank you. You`re always here.

(LAUGHTER)

MATTHEWS: Thank you.

(CROSSTALK)

PARKER: That`s right. You don`t pay me.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: Oh, here it is. Ladies and gentlemen, has everybody at MSNBC heard
what she is complaining about?

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: Coming up...

PARKER: When you work for free, they have to say thank you.

(LAUGHTER)

MATTHEWS: Coming up, every single Democratic female senator endorsed Hillary
Clinton but one, but one. Her name is Elizabeth Warren. She did not endorse
Hillary today. It means something. What does it mean?

This is HARDBALL, the place for politics.

MATTHEWS: Welcome back to HARDBALL.

At this hour, Democratic presidential front-runner Hillary Clinton is winning
the endorsement of 13 out of the 14 female Democratic U.S. senators. The one
Democrat who is holding out, Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren. There she
is.

Warren has so far declined to officially support Clinton`s run for the White
House. Well, the Massachusetts Democrat was also absent from Hillary`s rally in
her hometown of Boston yesterday, where Clinton received the all-out endorsement
of the city`s mayor, Marty Walsh, who revved up students and labor unions alike.

Let`s watch.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MARTY WALSH (D), MAYOR OF BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS: In 2016, it`s time we stop
talking about having a woman as president. It`s time we go out and make it a
reality.

(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)

WALSH: Get your sledge hammers ready, because we have got a glass ceiling to
demolish.

(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)

WALSH: Ladies and gentlemen, brothers and sisters, I`m proud to introduce my
friend and yours, a champion for America and the next president of the United
States of America, Hillary Clinton!

(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: That`s pure Boston.

Anyway, Laura Bassett is a political reporter for The Huffington Post. And Bob
Cusack is editor in chief of "The Hill" newspaper.

The two of you know your stuff.

You know what is amazing? When I asked for the numbers today, you know, Clinton,
Secretary Clinton, is killing Bernie Sanders in Massachusetts 54-29. Why doesn`t
Elizabeth Warren, the senior senator, pop up and say, yes, I`m with Hillary?
She`s going to be the nominee probably.

What does she got to loose?

LAURA BASSETT, THE HUFFINGTON POST: I think it`s about leverage. I think that
Elizabeth Warren`s power is her ability to bring the Democratic candidates to
the left, especially Hillary. And I think, if she comes out and endorses
Hillary, then it gives Hillary the freedom to sort of drift back over to the
center, where I think she is more comfortable being. And this way, she is still
beholden to what Elizabeth Warren wants.

MATTHEWS: Well, if Bernie can`t do it, why can Elizabeth do it, because Bernie
is not pulling her over that far to the left, occasionally, but not -- everybody
still thinks of her as a centrist.

Maybe -- I don`t want to get Hillary Clinton in trouble, a moderate, a
center-left -- what can we say anymore?

You tell me. What is acceptable now in the face of Elizabeth Warren? If she is
not going to support you, do you try to get her support, or do you say, I`m
sorry, I will live without you?

BOB CUSACK, "THE HILL": I think, Chris, she is going to support Hillary Clinton,
but not for months.

She wants to push Clinton on policy, on expanding Social Security, on banking
policy, banking law that President Clinton eradicated. She wants to put it back
in. She wants to push Hillary to the left.

And Elizabeth Warren is a force in the Democratic Party. She has a huge
following.

MATTHEWS: OK. Back in 1960, Rockefeller, the moderate Republican, governor of
New York, he called Nixon up to Fifth Avenue or where it was, to their apartment
-- his apartment, one of his many places he could live if he felt like it, and
dictated terms to Nixon.

CUSACK: Right.

MATTHEWS: If you want my endorsement, you got to do this thing.

Is she going to be that dramatic?

CUSACK: I think she will. I think they`re going to get a room at one point and
she is going to say, this is what I want.

MATTHEWS: And they will come out with a...

(CROSSTALK)

CUSACK: And she will have a great speaking slot at the convention. The party
will unite. And the party is mostly united. I mean, Hillary Clinton has 132
endorsements already.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: ... formal communique, like a meeting between Vladimir Putin and
Erdogan. Is it going to be like that, where she says, OK, I will back her now?
She says she is going to do something about breaking up the banks, she`s going
to do some things about Glass-Steagall or whatever?

BASSETT: I think Hillary already said she wasn`t going to renew Glass-Steagall.
So, that`s kind of a lost fight on Elizabeth Warren`s part.

But I do think Elizabeth is going to wait until the last minute, maybe when she
can maximize her impact of her endorsement, the night before the New Hampshire
primaries, for instance, and then come out and make a difference.

MATTHEWS: Well, in 2013, all the Senate`s Democratic women signed a letter
encouraging Hillary Clinton to actually run for president, including Elizabeth
Warren. So, she wanted her to run.

Is this like Nancy and Charlie Brown? I really will hold up the football?
Anyway, when -- Lucy, rather.

When ABC`s George Stephanopoulos asked Warren of -- Hillary was her candidate --
was her candidate a few months later, Warren praised her.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN (D), MASSACHUSETTS: All of the women, Democratic women, I
should say, of the Senate urged Hillary Clinton to run. And I hope she does.

GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS, ABC NEWS: You hope she does. And if she does, she is your
candidate? You endorse her?

(CROSSTALK)

WARREN: Hillary is terrific.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: "Hillary is terrific."

But in February of `15, that`s this year, Warren told MSNBC that she wanted to
wait and see what Hillary wanted to run on.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

WARREN: I want to hear what she wants to run on, and what she says she wants to
do. That`s what campaigns are supposed to be about.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: OK. What`s happening with the Democratic Party right now? Is it a
united party? The Republican Party seems to be all over the place right now with
the renegades running against what is left of the establishment.

Is Hillary basically the face of the Democratic Party right now? Women made it
clear today, 13 out of 14, she`s it.

BASSETT: And 13 out of 14, yes, three-fourths of the Senate Democrats,
two-thirds of the House Democrats.

It`s really clear that Hillary Clinton is the establishment candidate. She still
needs to woo young voters. She still needs to woo the grassroots supporters that
Elizabeth Warren has. But in terms of being the establishment candidate,
absolutely. And she is...

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: You think young women are as aware of how important it is - - I`m
putting a judgment on this -- that we have a woman president finally? Are they
as into it as the people who fought through the ERA battles and all the other
battles?

BASSETT: Absolutely.

I think, with Planned Parenthood under attack right now, I think feminism is
absolutely having a moment. And I think young women are extremely excited about
the idea of a female president.

MATTHEWS: What do you think?

CUSACK: Oh, listen, demographics favor the Democrats.

Hillary Clinton, a lot of Democrats say privately they are not that excited
about Hillary Clinton, but, overall, they think she can win, especially when you
look at the Republican field, which is not united.

MATTHEWS: I think she is being helped by what`s happening on the crazy side. No,
it has been crazy. I mean Trump. We will talk more about Trump. We must.

Anyway, Laura Bassett, it`s great to have you on.

Thank you, Bob Cusack.

Up next -- I do read your papers.

Up next, Chris Christie earns a key endorsement up in New Hampshire. But is the
New Jersey governor angry enough to capture Trump`s voter base or is he just too
liberal?

You`re watching HARDBALL, the place for politics.

(NEWSBREAK)

MATTHEWS: Welcome back to HARDBALL.

It`s been a year of the nonpolitician in the Republican presidential contest so
far. Will it be a primary sweep this winter by them?

Right now, just two months from the Iowa caucuses and the New Hampshire primary,
the hell raisers are running high in Iowa. Trump leads the polling averages by
seven points over Ben Carson, who is fading. Ted Cruz is now within striking
distance. If these guys sweep the Iowa caucuses in the first primary in New
Hampshire, that meaning Cruz in Iowa, Trump in New Hampshire, it could be the
death knell for the Republican establishment, don`t you think?

Trump holds a double-digit lead in New Hampshire polling averages right now.
Rubio is rising. New Hampshire`s biggest paper right now has endorsed Chris
Christie of New Jersey. Is New Hampshire the Republican Party`s Alamo, the last
chance to stop, dare I say get them a real candidate?

Anyway, I`m joined right now by people who are going to tell me that. The
HARDBALL round table tonight, Democratic pollster Cornell Belcher, the "Time
Magazine`s" Jay Newton-Small, and American Conservative Union chairman Matt
Schlapp.

You`re the expert, Matt. It seems New Hampshire always played a role. Sure, Iowa
is a little bit religious, evangelical, even a bit home schooling in its
attitude towards government, very much against it. New Hampshire is the rock,
ribbed Republican type. Conservative, lean to the right, but not over the fence,
not over the wall.

MATT SCHLAPP, AMERICAN CONSERVATIVE UNION: Small government people.

MATTHEWS: But is it going to play that role this time and slow down the move to
the hard right?

SCHLAPP: I think it plays a huge role this time, because I think your premise is
right that if Donald Trump or Ben Carson grab these first two states or someone
else like Ted Cruz grabs Iowa, the insiders, as I like to call `em, are going to
be worried about that result. New Hampshire is really their place to prove it.

MATTHEWS: Because if you don`t win New Hampshire, you skip over to South
Carolina in the south where the hard right, religious conservatives,
libertarians, whatever you call them this week, who don`t like government win.

JAY NEWTON-SMALL, TIME MAGAZINE: Yours -- I mean, you have three legs of the
Republican school. And that`s what the three primaries are. And it`s social
conservatives in Iowa, it`s fiscal conservatives in New Hampshire and it`s
defense hawks in South Carolina.

SCHLAPP: I agree with you.

NEWTON-SMALL: But what New Hampshire has given us the last two cycles is, they
picked pretty out there candidate. In the Iowa caucuses, you got Rick Santorum
and Mike Huckabee in `08 and `12. Then they`ve given us Mitt Romney and John
McCain. They`ve actually picked the nominee, both times in New Hampshire.

This time around, the field is so muddied on both sides, you know, it`s like two
separate primaries.

MATTHEWS: The worry was, Ron Brownstein wrote this in "The L.A. Times," I was
just other there, that the worry by the centrist Republicans, the non-far right
Republicans, we all call them, was that they would divide up their vote. Jeb
Bush would get some votes because of family history, Chris Christie would get
some because he`s the big east candidate, he`s the East Coast guy, and Kasich
would get votes because he`ll be up there every minute between now and February.

Now, they worry. So, now, the newspaper endorsed Chris Christie with the hope
getting at least one guy coming out, a contestant from New Hampshire who is not
a right winger.

CORNELL BELCHER, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: Well, "Union Leaders" has done such a
great job predicting in the past. I think two of --

(CROSSTALK)

SCHLAPP: Two of eight. Two of eight.

(LAUGHTER)

MATTHEWS: Two of nine actually.

(CROSSTALK)

BELCHER: But I think also these endorsements --

MATTHEWS: Newt Gingrich didn`t win.

BELCHER: Some of these endorsements aren`t necessarily helpful, particularly
when you look at what`s --

MATTHEWS: Is it like chicken soup, it can`t hurt?

BELCHER: It can`t hurt, but it doesn`t necessarily help. Quite frankly, if I`m
Donald Trump, I don`t want union endorsement because that`s part of the
establishment. If I`m running as an outsider, the last thing I want is one of
these establishment conservative sort of newspapers, you know, endorse me
because I`m the outsider, it goes against it.

I`m going to differ a little bit with my friends here on the panel. I think
Donald Trump is going to turn South. You look at his numbers in South Carolina,
he is running further ahead in South Carolina. I think he`s going to do really
well in South Carolina, because when you also talk about the South, you`re also
talking about a part of the country where xenophobia and racial division has
been --

MATTHEWS: So, his anti-Muslim commentary about the New Jersey Muslims who rooted
for 9/11, he is making fun of a best east New Yorker --

BELCHER: With a lie, it`s a just a flat out lie.

MATTHEWS: -- this big New York reporter, he can make fun of him physically
because he`s from "The New York Times", claiming Obama, the first black
president, is actually a foreigner, that`s going to help him down South.

BLECHER: That doesn`t hurt him down South. Absolutely, it`s going to help him
down South. And if you look at his numbers in South Carolina --

MATTHEWS: Fact checks don`t mean anything. Fact checks inside the newspaper
don`t seem to bother anybody, do they?

NEWTON-SMALL: No, I mean, it`s more like the anti-immigrant, I think Cornell is
absolutely right here, the anti-immigrant, the anti-Hispanic stuff is really
going to -- I mean, that plays amazingly well, bizarrely in South Carolina,
where it`s a right to work state, and a lot of people feel very conscious about
their jobs and there`s a lot of like job security problems.

And look at Jim DeMint in South Carolina. He`s like he was basically, you know,
re-elected his entire second campaign on like an anti-immigration position.

MATTHEWS: But Lindsey is pretty good on it. Lindsey is very good. He voted for
the Senate bill.

NEWTON-SMALL: Yes. No, Lindsey is --

MATTHEWS: He voted for the whole schmiel. He wanted it to go together. He backed
comprehensive immigration reform. He had a lot of guts to do that, I thought.

NEWTON-SMALL: Absolutely, but he`s also like the rare bird, right? He`s the --

SCHLAPP: I don`t think it`s that rare.

NEWTON-SMALL: No, there are sections in South Carolina party --

(CROSSTALK)

SCHLAPP: I worked for George W. Bush. If you look at what Donald Trump is
saying, he`s saying everybody has to go home and the good ones could come back.
Under George W. Bush, we called it a touchback. Everybody had to go home and
file their paperwork. And the ones that were, you know, at the benefits to
society, and work and everything else were expedited. It`s really not that
difficult.

BELCHER: Here`s a problem. George W. Bush, God bless him, he couldn`t win the
Republican primary today.

SCHLAPP: OK, we`ll stop.

BELCHER: What he said about immigration, how is he going to win the Republican
primary? George Bush made the same statement --

(CROSSTALK)

SCHLAPP: You didn`t listen to what I said. There is more the same what these
candidates are saying. People like Donald Trump is --

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: Let me tell you, we can agree that George W. Bush couldn`t win after
taking us down that rabbit hole in Iraq.

(LAUGHTER)

MATTHEWS: The roundtable is staying with us.

Up next, these three tell me something I don`t know.

And this is HARDBALL, the place for politics.

MATTHEWS: Mark your calendars for Tuesday, January 12th, it`s not that far off,
in 2016. That`s coming, too. President Obama will give his final State of the
Union Address that night. That`s the 12th of January.

And I`ll be back -- by the way, it will be before the Iowa caucuses held on
February 1st. It`s the earliest date since 1977, an address by the president.
That was President Ford back then who also spoke on January 12th.

It`s a very early State of the Union. I guess Obama wants to have the full year
ahead of him, his last.

We`ll be right back.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK0

MATTHEWS: We are back with the HARDBALL round table. I love to be back here.

Cornell, tell me something I don`t know.

BELCHER: I think early on there was a lot of hand wringing about the Obama
coalition and a lot of conventional Democrats went in saying, you know what,
we`re not going to need, you know, 95 percent of that coalition because
Hillary`s going to do so much better with white votes, particularly white women.
If you look at the Kaiser poll that recently came out on race relations, it`s
clear, we are not becoming less racially polarized as a country. I think there`s
going to be a lot of rethinking among conventional Democrats about quite frankly
we`re not going to necessarily do better among whites than what Kerry (ph) and
Obama did --

MATTHEWS: So Hillary won`t get that Appalachian white woman, southwestern
Pennsylvania? She won`t get her?

(CROSSTALK)

BELCHER: She won`t do remarkably better among white women. If you look at sort
of how the polarization is, it`s kind of hard to make an argument she`s going to
do markedly better among white voters.

MATTHEWS: I think some of those people identify with the old Hillary from
Arkansas. Maybe they identify now. I don`t know.

NEWTON-SMALL: So, in 2011, I did a profile of Paul Ryan for "Time Magazine", and
I went with him to the Racine County Fair where he competed in a goat milking
contest, which he does every year at the Racine County Fair.

He always loses to the milk maids and the beauty queens who are very good at
milking goats. But he`s really competitive. And so every year, he really works
on his strategy and how to best milk a goat. And I was chatting with him on
Friday, and he was really excited to tell me that this year, he actually won his
goat-milking contest.

MATTHEWS: Is it that goat smell on him afterward? The smelly goat smell?

NEWTON-SMALL: But it`s important because it`s a swing seat, right? All politics
is local.

MATTHEWS: OK, 30 seconds.

SCHLAPP: Chris Christie`s on a roll. He had his best three weeks of online small
dollar donors, a lot of money coming in. And the phones are off the hook because
"The Union Leader" endorsement has got a lot more elected officials coming his
way.

MATTHEWS: What`s with the white shirts?

SCHLAPP: You`ve got to talk to him about his fashion.

MATTHEWS: Why is he always wearing white shirts?

Anyway, thank you, Cornell Belcher. Thank you, Jay Newton-Small. And thank you
for the goat news, and, Matt Schlapp.

When we return -- I didn`t know that -- let me finish with the stuff dreams are
made of. A 21st century train ride across the U.S. of A.

You`re watching HARDBALL, the place for politics.

MATTHEWS: Let me finish tonight with the stuff that dreams are made of.

It`s of an America where you and I can get on a train and ride across our
beautiful country, seeing the rivers and prairies, the mountains and wide open
plains, the small towns where the school buses stop at the tracks. And you can
go downtown right from your train car, where you see people`s faces and enjoy
the shared sight and sound and look of being an American.

Well, last week I did something I thought of doing for a long time -- cutting
across the United States by train. I wanted to see if you could still do it the
way you used to in the days before jet airliners, before the North American
continent itself became flyover country between Gotham and Tinseltown.

Well, starting the Sunday before Thanksgiving, eight days ago, my hardy son
Thomas and I headed off to join Kathleen and Caroline for a family get-together
out West with our other son Michael, his wife Sarah, Julia, and Brendan.

And we went by Amtrak. It was great.

I want to share with you now what we saw out the window.

First the stunning sunsets along the Hudson as we headed north to Albany -- the
amazing colors looking west from the Empire State. Then, those snowy scenes from
Ohio as we headed to Chicago following the old route of the glamorous 20th
century line that used to take movie stars and other VIPs from their first leg
from Broadway to Hollywood. I love the scene of the local school bus -- there it
is -- waiting at the rail crossing in South Bend, Indiana, home of Notre Dame.

Coming out of Chicago Monday morning, we boarded the Southwest Chief to Los
Angeles beginning with a great close-up look of the city`s western suburbs. We
woke up Tuesday morning -- there it is -- to the golden glow of New Mexico and
wide vistas of the American West, including a climb to 7,000 feet and a stop at
a classic town at the foot of the mountain.

Well, someday I want this trip throughout the heart of America to be there for
all of us on a train that goes as fast as those in Europe and Asia, as fast as
our pioneer ancestors would have loved to go and would if they could have
combined their gumption and aspirations with what we in the early 21st century
have in know-how.

I`ve spoken a great deal about how I would love our country to reunite itself by
rail to bring back the rail heads of St. Louis and Kansas City and Albuquerque
and all those great towns in between.

We`re too much a bicoastal country today, too much the liberal country on the
coasts, the conservative country in the middle. We`re not talking to each other.
We`re not living in the same country. You don`t have a great conversation when
one guy`s sitting on a tractor and you`re watching a movie at 39,000 feet.

On a train, on today`s Amtrak, you at least get to see out the window the real
faces and real lives as you go from New York to Los Angeles and the folks
boarding or getting off at the next stop can tell you what life`s really like
out there. Lincoln did it during the civil war. Can`t we do it better a century
and a half later?

That`s HARDBALL for now. Thanks for being with us.

"ALL IN WITH CHRIS HAYES" starts right now.

THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE
UPDATED.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 113001cb.461

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript

                       Copyright 2015 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              Copyright 2015 MSNBC


                               5 of 24 DOCUMENTS


                                     MSNBC

                            November 30, 2015 Monday

                   SHOW: ALL IN with CHRIS HAYES 8:00 PM EST

ALL IN WITH CHRIS HAYES for November 30, 2015

BYLINE: Chris Hayes, Joan Walsh

GUESTS: Mike Walrond, McKay Coppins, Robert Costa, Rebecca Traister, Jessica
Gonzalez-Rojas, Tony Dokoupil

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 8501  words



HIGHLIGHT: Donald Trump abruptly cancels an event that was planned to feature
endorsements from black pastors, and tonight, he shares the stage with Herman
Cain. Chris Christie picked up the much sought-after endorsement of the
influential newspaper "The New Hampshire Union Leader." But can a big New
Hampshire endorsement distract voters from Chris Christie`s actual record as
governor?


(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

CHRIS HAYES, MSNBC HOST (voice-over): Tonight on ALL IN --

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE (via telephone): I have a great
relationship with the black pastors.

HAYES: Donald Trump abruptly cancels an event that was planned to feature
endorsements from black pastors.

TRUMP: Probably some of the Black Lives Matter folks called them up, saying, oh,
you shouldn`t be meeting with Trump because he believes that all lives matter.

HAYES: Tonight, he shares the stage with Herman Cain.

HERMAN CAIN (R), FORMER PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Who`s the president of
Ubeki-beki-beki-stan-stan.

HAYES: Then, can a big New Hampshire endorsement distract voters from Chris
Christie`s actual record as governor?

GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE (R-NJ), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Sit down and shut up.

HAYES: Plus, as a suspect from the Planned Parenthood shooting appears in court,
politicians draw their own conclusions.

SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: He was a man who registered to
vote as a woman.

HAYES: And President Obama kicks off the Paris climate summit with a bold
prediction.

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Here in Paris, we can show the
world what is possible when we come together.

HAYES: When ALL IN starts right now.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

HAYES: Good evening from New York. I`m Chris Hayes.

We`re looking at live pictures of a Donald Trump event in Macon, Georgia,
tonight. Over five months since he entered the presidential race calling Mexican
immigrants criminals and rapists, you would think observers would stop being
surprised by Trump`s capacity to make stuff up and offend people. But you would
be wrong. After his response to the Paris attacks earned him the F-word,
"fascist" by some Republicans on the record, Trump`s rhetoric has continued to
reach new lows, especially on the subject of Muslims and terrorism.

In an interview this morning, he was asked his opinion of Islam in general.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you think that Islam is an inherently peaceful religion
that`s been by some small percentage as you just said, whatever the percentage
is, perverted by some, or do you think that Islam is an inherently violent
religion?

TRUMP (via telephone): Well, all I can say, John, is there`s something going on.
You know, there`s something definitely going on. I don`t know that that question
can be answered. It can be answered two ways. It could be answered both ways.

But there`s something going on there. There`s something that there`s a lot of
hatred coming out of at least a big part of it. You see the hatred. I mean, we
see it every day.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: This comes as Trump refused yet again to back off his claims of having
seen Muslims in New Jersey celebrating on 9/11 even though there`s zero evidence
it actually happened.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP (via telephone): I saw it on television. I saw clips. And so did many
other people. And many people saw it in person. I`ve had hundreds of phone calls
to the Trump Organization saying, "We saw it. There was dancing in the streets."

CHUCK TODD, NBC NEWS: This didn`t happen in New Jersey. There were plenty of
reports and you`re --

TRUMP: It did happen in New Jersey. Chuck, it did happen in New Jersey. I have
hundreds of people that agree with me. And by the way --

(CROSSTALK)

TODD: But they want to agree with you. That doesn`t make it true.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: After New Jersey governor and fellow 2016 contender Chris Christie said
today the celebrations definitely did not take place, standing up for his home
state of New Jersey, Trump responded that Christie, quote, "really needs to be
careful about what he says" -- something to consider.

The controversy over Trump`s claim has also resulted in a dust-up between the
candidate and a reporter named Serge Kovaleski which is now being used as fodder
for an attack ad by one of Trump`s other opponents. You see, last week, Trump
tweeted a "Washington Post" article from September 18th, 2001 insisting it
substantiated his claim about New Jersey Muslims, even though the article
mentioned only that law enforcement detained and questioned some people who were
allegedly seen celebrating the 9/11 attacks.

Now, after one of the reporters, Kovaleski, now at "The New York Times,"
revealed that his reporting never bore out those allegations, this was Trump`s
response.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: And now, the poor guy you`ve got to see this guy, ah, I don`t know what I
said, ah, I don`t remember. He`s going, like, I don`t remember, maybe that`s
what I said. This was 14 years ago, he still -- they didn`t do a retraction.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: You`ve got to see this guy. That`s how he starts that.

Trump was widely interpreted to be mocking Kovaleski, who has a condition that
restricts joint movement. And while Trump defended himself in a statement
saying, quote, "I had no idea who this reporter Serge Kovaleski is. If Mr.
Kovaleski is handicapped I would not know because I do not know what he looks
like."

Well, there`s increasing evidence that has emerged that the two knew each other
as far back as the late `80s when Kovaleski was covering Trump for "The New York
Daily News".

Today, John Kasich released an online attack ad -- his second in two weeks --
suggesting Trump`s behavior is unworthy of the Oval Office.

And today, Trump`s campaign hit a bit of a snag over an event that was billed as
a big endorsement by more than 100 black religious leaders. Although Trump still
held a private meeting with the group his campaign abruptly canceled the planned
press conference after some people listed as attendees publicly said they
weren`t actually supporting Trump. The multi- event`s organizer told "Politico"
it was nothing more than, quote, "miscommunication" with Trump`s campaign staff.
This was the candidate`s explanation.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: I think what happened probably it gets publicity unfortunately as
everything I do gets publicity. And probably some of the Black Lives Matter
folks called them up saying oh, you shouldn`t be meeting with Trump because he
believes that all lives matter. I believe black lives do matter but I believe
all lives matter. Very strongly.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: Even though that event fell short of the outright endorsement Trump was
looking for, after the meeting, he flew to Georgia to be introduced at his rally
by pizza magnate and 2012 Republican candidate Herman Cain.

Joining me now Pastor Mike Walrond. He`s senior pastor at First Corinthian
Baptist Church here in East Harlem, New York.

Pastor, you`ve been fairly critical of let`s say the optics surrounding this.
Candidates meet with pastors all the time. What`s your beef?

PASTOR MICHAEL WALROND, FIRST CORINTHIAN BAPTIST CHURCH: I think in some ways,
there`s a part of me, Chris, that wants to rebel against the tendency by some to
paint African-Americans and maybe even African-American clergy as this kind of
monolithic --

HAYES: Yes, exactly.

WALROND: -- group, and that is not the case. I respect those pastors who wanted
to meet with Trump today, those who endorse and those who did not endorse.

For me, though, we understand what the optics mean, especially for candidate and
what the appearance gives. So, I think, in that regard, it troubles me a little
bit because I come from a particular tradition of social justice engagement and
prophetic engagement and there were those who said they needed to hear what Mr.
Trump had to say to determine whether or not they would endorse him which I
thought was strange.

We`ve heard a lot from Mr. Trump already. And things that disturbed me that
we`re at a critical time in the history of this country, where there`s so much
division and there`s so much bitterness and we see it in the events that have
taken place over the past year and a half, especially around race. To see
someone who has a platform that is increasingly I think divisive and gives the
hint of racism, even fascism as some have stated, is troubling to me.

But on one hand, I don`t dismiss it at all. Not just because of his high numbers
and ratings he`s getting, but I don`t dismiss it because clearly Mr. Trump is
hitting something, is hitting a nerve. He`s representing the ideas and the
feelings and the sentiments and the emotions of a large population of our
country.

HAYES: You know, the point you started out with struck me as an important one. I
want to play a little bit of an account of what this meeting was like, I thought
it was sort of interesting of Trump actually not speaking for himself in the
meeting. Take a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We had a very productive, constructive meeting. We made
history today because we had meaningful dialogue with Mr. Donald Trump and we
voiced concerns that were sensitive to the African-American community and we
asked questions and the questions were answered. We were all satisfied with the
answers and we`re a unified front right here -- wonderful time, wonderful
dialogue, wonderful fellowship, wonderful action. It was a great day.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: That was Dr. Darryl Scott, pastor in Cleveland. I`m sorry, not the clip I
was talking about. But that was Dr. Scott in Cleveland sort of talking about
what a great event it was. Omarosa over her shoulder who I don`t believe is a
pastor in any way.

WALROND: She is.

HAYES: She is a minister.

WALROND: Yes.

HAYES: I learn something new every day.

So here`s my question to you -- your point about people not being monolithic.
Millions of African-Americans. And there`s tens of thousands of African-American
preachers, people of different political opinions. Can you imagine any world in
which Donald Trump got significant African- American support?

WALROND: No. I think the polls show that 70 percent of -- 75 percent I think of
African-Americans are opposed to what Mr. Trump represents. And I think there
will be a population of persons. There are African-American Republicans. There
are African-American Democrats. There are African- Americans who are
independent.

He will have a following. There will be people who support him. I believe the
majority of African-Americans will not. For me personally, again, it is the
language. It is the divisiveness.

I am part of a tradition that believes in dealing and standing with and for
those who are oppressed. When you begin to denigrate immigrants, and you begin
to make fun of women and then you make fun of someone who`s disabled, he`s
showing you who he is right now.

HAYES: You know, it was interesting to me, too, the way this played out which
this poster got leaked and all these folks. It seemed to me an interesting
moment in terms of just sort of -- when you talk about not being monolithic.
There was some backlash before this meeting ever happened.

WALROND: Oh, yes.

HAYES: And you could sort of see it as it unfolded. We`re going to do this
meeting, maybe we`re going to endorse, maybe not. And then this sort of
crescendo backlash people started walking back.

Do you think the dynamics are different now around a meeting like this than they
would have been ten years ago?

WALROND: I think it might have been the same, even if ten years ago. I think the
issues that African-Americans face in this country have not shifted very much in
ten years we`re talking about. So the issues that are critical, whether it`s
issues around education, housing, poverty, those are real in the community.

And I think this meeting would have had the same kind of backlash ten years ago.
I mean, because there are people who just do not find themselves drawn by Mr.
Trump`s rhetoric. And there`s nothing galvanizing about those who want to see a
different kind of America right now. And in fact, his words really can strike
terror in some people`s hearts because of the way he`s speaking and who he
represents, and the fact that he`s leading and winning.

HAYES: We`re going to see how long that lasts.

Pastor Walrond, really a pleasure. Thank you for coming in.

WALROND: Thank you.

HAYES: All right. Joining me now, McKay Coppins, senior writer of "BuzzFeed
News", author of the new book that drops tomorrow, "The Wilderness: Deep Inside
the Republican Party`s Combative, Contentious, Chaotic Quest to Take Back the
White House".

MCKAY COPPINS, BUZZFEED NEWS: Alliteration.

HAYES: Alliterative.

And Joan Walsh, MSNBC political analyst, national affairs correspondent for "The
Nation" magazine.

Well, I thought that the three things that we sort of cued up here, right? You
got this insistence that he saw this thing happen which everyone says didn`t
happen. It didn`t happen. You saw Chuck Todd -- I thought he had a great line in
that exchange where Trump says, well, all these people agree with me. And Chuck
says, well, just because they agree with you doesn`t make it true, which is in
some ways --

(CROSSTALK)

COPPINS: They want to agree with you, which I think is a key point, right?

HAYES: That in some ways is the kind of reality distortion field that has kind
of become the vortex around this -- around which this race kind of circles.

COPPINS: Yes. In my book when I write about Donald Trump, the chapter that
focuses on him is called "Into the Fever Swamps." And the reason is because
unlike any -- you know, all the other Republicans that I profile in the book,
basically unlike any other Republican presidential candidate that`s maintained
this kind of lead, he really laid the foundation for his entire political career
with -- by spreading widely debunked conspiracy theories.

HAYES: About Barack Obama. Yes. Right. Let`s remember.

COPPINS: And this is funny because people kind of have forgotten this because
it`s been so many other things that he said that people --

JOAN WALSH, MSNBC POLITICAL ANALYST: He`s the birther in chief.

COPPINS: Right. The birther crusade was what made him famous on the right. And
it started with kind of this fringe, right? This was a fringe idea that he then
mainstreamed -- he helped to mainstream in the party.

And what I think is fascinating about all the things that Trump has been saying
about Muslims and African-Americans, all these crazy things are that what he
does is he helps create this kind of mirage that -- in the fever swamps and when
then conservatives see it, when fellow conservatives see it he uses that as
proof that it`s true, right? And it`s this circular thing that keeps happening.
Hundreds of people have been calling and saying that they saw it too, which they
didn`t because it didn`t happen, but because he keeps saying it so much he`s
convincing people that they saw it.

HAYES: Well, the other day, you know, on this thing about this thing with --
it`s also to me a testament to someone who just can`t admit ever they`re wrong.
It`s sort of --

WALSH: And they love him for that too.

HAYES: Right. It`s like I`ve been caught dead to rights. But no, I saw it
anyway.

We`ve all met people like that in our lives and usually those are just
profoundly destructive people to be around, destructive for any institution they
occupy and destructive in any family they occupy. This is not like an unknown
personality type to people, right? And these people tend to be very troublesome
individuals.

That said, the other day he retweets an Info Wars link about the celebrations
happening. And I joked on Twitter, we are about 48 hours from Bush knocked down
the towers from Donald Trump. He is so off the normal kind of four squares
agreed to reality.

WALSH: Well, I think there are a couple different categories. We did a taxonomy
of his lies and what his supporters think about them because there are some that
belong to the category of I don`t care if he`s right or not, he could be right,
there were people celebrating in East Jerusalem -- well, it could have been
east, you know, Jersey City.

(CROSSTALK)

WALSH: Paterson.

HAYES: Right.

WALSH: You know, it could have happened. Then there`s the category of I like
that he says stuff like this because the world is too politically correct.

So, I`ve actually seen people say, who cares if he mocked a reporter for being
disabled, which is disgusting. We were all raised not to ever do that. But
people were like, oh, we`ve gotten too soft and sensitive. But then there`s a
third thing going on -- which is it is taking place against the backdrop, let`s
admit it, of a Republican primary that is not distinguished by its love for the
truth.

I mean, you`ve got Ted Cruz, you just showed it, saying a transgendered leftist
activist is responsible for the Planned Parenthood shootings. You`ve got Carly
Fiorina --

HAYES: You`re going to force me to defend Ted Cruz`s context.

(CROSSTALK)

HAYES: I want to note for the record, for the people doing the transcript that
the full context of that isn`t quite that. But continue.

(CROSSTALK)

WALSH: He did say it. Carly Fiorina continues to lie about the Planned
Parenthood video. The entire field has defined amnesty as the 13- year track
including fines to a pathway to citizenship. And Jeb Bush told us that George
Bush kept us safe.

So, there`s -- the whole campaign is taking place in this bizarro world where
facts still matter.

HAYES: Do you agree with this thesis that essentially this is a difference in
degree and not of kind when you`re talking to Trump which is basically --

WALSH: It is.

HAYES: -- the theory you`re advancing.

COPPINS: No, because I think there`s a difference between what Carly Fiorina
said about planned parenthood which was untrue but was clearly rooted in some
existing video that she was just miss --

WALSH: But when she`s coop fronted with it she continues to say it happened even
though reporters and fact checkers said, no, actually we`ve walked the whole --

COPPINS: But can you really say that that`s the same thing as saying Barack
Obama wasn`t born in the United States when there`s literally, I mean -- or
Muslims are cheering on 9/11? I mean, I just think it`s --

(CROSSTALK)

COPPINS: And I think also that many of the things that Trump has latched on to
are rooted in this kind of toxic nativist fringe that`s always existed on the
American right, from the John Birch Society newsletters to world government chat
rooms, right?

HAYES: Right.

COPPINS: But what we`re seeing now is there`s been -- in the Obama era with
democratized media and deregulated political money, you`ve seen a huge flow of
cash and clout and political influence to that fringe --

HAYES: To those corners, right.

COPPINS: -- which has created kind of a counter-establishment, right, that`s
amplified these voices and made it actually worthwhile for politicians to latch
on to.

WALSH: I really understand what you`re arguing and I basically -- I mostly agree
with you but I do want to say, we routinely leave out of our definition of this
lunatic fringe the anti-abortion -- the violent anti- abortion right that
believes absolutely crazy things.

And so, when you have -- when we`re talking about Donald Trump`s lies and we`re
not talking about -- well, he also said this weekend, he also told Chuck lots of
people are really mad that Planned Parenthood is selling baby parts.

They`re not selling baby parts. And this entire focus on demonizing Planned
Parenthood is -- that comes out of the fever swamp, too.

HAYES: Right. And yet that occupies a slightly more mainstream position even
within the kind of controversial world of Trumpism.

COPPINS: No, and I understand where Joan`s coming from. I think the difference
is that there are pro-life -- there are social conservatives who are against
abortion who are not violent at all, right? There are not that many people who
avidly agree or believe that Muslims were cheering on 9/11, that Obama was born
outside the United States, that are also kind of just totally reality -- based
in reality and understand what everything is going on.

That said, that is changing. And with Donald Trump --

HAYES: Well, that`s the question.

COPPINS: -- holding the megaphone, right?

HAYES: And how much he`s actually -- the question with Trump, right, is that how
much he`s a reflection of this stuff and how much he`s actually constituting a
kind of new constituency for himself.

McKay Coppins and Joan Walsh, thank you both.

COPPINS: Thank you.

WALSH: Thank you.

HAYES: Still ahead, when Donald Trump turns his rhetoric against a fellow
candidate, it`s generally a sign they`re gaining some traction. Why Chris
Christie is now in his sights.

Plus, should the attack on Planned Parenthood we were just discussing be
considered an act of domestic terrorism? We`ll take a look at the rhetoric and
the classification around the shooting.

Later, the first trial begins in the case of Freddie Gray over seven months
after his death in police custody.

Those stories and more, ahead.

HAYES: Today, one of the most -- New York`s most powerful politicians, former
Democratic Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, was convicted on federal corruption
charges that included bribery, extortion, and money laundering. Prosecutors
showed Silver had accepted nearly $4 million in illegal payments in various quid
pro quo schemes. Silver spent nearly 40 years in the New York state assembly,
serving as speaker for more than two decades -- one of the most powerful men in
New York politics, until he was forced to resign following his arrest this year.

U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said the case made it clear the show-me- the-money
culture of Albany has been perpetuated at the very top of the political food
chain.

Silver who is now 71 faces a maximum sentence of 130 years behind bars. And you
can bet his conviction today has a whole lot of politicians in New York in both
parties very, very nervous.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TODD: Tell us how you started -- you cut the field to get to the point where you
decided to pick Chris Christie. He was among a group of how many that you were
seriously considering for the endorsement?

JOE MCQUAID, THE NEW HAMPSHIRE UNION LEADER: I think we were really looking just
at the governors. It was left with Kasich, Bush, and Christie. And from that
myself and my editorial writer and some people that I respect in the community,
we looked and Christie is the guy who can take the fight to Trump, Hillary,
ISIS.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: New Jersey Governor Chris Christie got some good news and some bad news
over the weekend. They both came in the same package.

First the good news. He picked up the much sought-after endorsement of the
influential newspaper "The New Hampshire Union Leader." In a piece titled, "For
our safety, our future: Chris Christie for president," the paper`s publisher
wrote, "Chris Christie is a solid pro-life conservative who`s managed to govern
in liberal New Jersey. But the one reason he may be best suited to lead in these
times is because he tells it like it is and isn`t shy about it."

The endorsement comes as Christie`s favorability rating among New Hampshire
Republicans is at 54 percent according to a recent Monmouth University poll.
That`s a 16 percent increase from just two months ago.

But likability and electability are two very different things, which brings us
to the bad news, which is that prior presidential hopefuls endorsed by the
"Union Leader" include Newt Gingrich, Steve Forbes, and Pat Buchanan twice.

Still, the paper`s endorsement and the endorsement of former speaker of New
Hampshire House of Representatives Donna Sytek, which is expected to be
announced tomorrow, appears to be part of a reaction to the Trump phenomenon, a
major push by the Republican establishment for a viable alternative in the wake
of Jeb Bush`s reduced status as a candidate.

While establishment lawmakers and donors see Christie as one anti- Trump option,
another is of course Marco Rubio, who`s already collected endorsements from 18
members of Congress. That includes Representative Darrell Issa, who announced
his support for Rubio today.

Joining me now, Robert Costa, national political reporter at "The Washington
Post."

All right, Robert, here`s my feeling about what`s happening with Chris Christie.
I feel like I am watching the media and a certain part of the political
establishment and the donor class will a Chris Christie rebirth narrative that
as of yet has not materialized in the actual polling.

ROBERT COSTA, THE WASHINGTON POST: Let`s stick to the reporting, right? It has
not started to materialize at all in the polls. But he is certainly having a
moment when it comes to media attention. I think "The Union Leader" endorsement,
as you say, it guarantees nothing in terms of its political capital but it does
bring renewed attention to Christie.

The problem for Christie is he`s still fighting a complicated crowded race in
New Hampshire. The same type of politician, a mainstream Republican hawk,
Kasich, Bush, Rubio, they`re all out there banking on New Hampshire.

HAYES: The other thing about Christie is this campaign season is so long -- we
were just talking about Donald Trump and his sort of birtherism which seems
many, many chapters ago. I mean, part of the problem Christie had is that he`s
really not particularly popular in the state he`s governing and there`s lots of
people who think he`s done a bad job governing it.

And I say that as sort of reflective of conservative opinion. This is his 39
percent approval rating in New Jersey, 67 percent say Christie should drop out
of the race. And 5 percent of New Jerseyans would choose Chris Christie as GOP
candidate. That strikes me as that still remains the biggest obstacle that guy
has.

COSTA: And his rivals have yet to bring up the bridge scandal. That could be a
problem for Christie on the horizon.

The reason Christie is having a bit of a moment, why he`s getting a boost is
really simple. One, post-Paris you see someone with his prosecutor profile,
someone who`s been a former U.S. attorney, tough talk. He`s rising with the
Republican hawks in New Hampshire.

And he is a political talent.

HAYES: Right.

COSTA: When it comes to holding the town hall meeting, he`s pretty good.

HAYES: Yes. I mean, that`s one of the things I think we`re starting to see on
display more. You see it in Ted Cruz, some of the videos that come out of his
events. You see it with Chris Christie. Just as sort of a descriptive matter of
their political ability to work a room, talk to a crowd, you can see that I
think in the case of both Cruz and Christie, and you`ve been on the trail a lot,
these are two people that really -- that are good at that. They have a kind of
innate talent when it comes to that.

COSTA: They do, and Cruz especially in Iowa. He`s connecting in a serious way.
He has the organization there.

But for Christie, it`s a more complicated path because the Republican
establishment, as you said, the donor class, Washington officials, they see
Rubio as a voice for the next generation. Rubio is someone who doesn`t have as
many problems. So, if Jeb Bush and Kasich, aren`t seen as someone who could win
that establishment lane -- looks like Rubio`s ahead of Christie even though
Christie is surging in his own way in New Hampshire.

HAYES: Is that how you would handicap it right now? It was interesting to watch
as these endorsements flow in. And if you actually go back, FiveThirtyEight`s
been doing a good job of tracking this. Rubio has really been racking up a lot
of endorsements.

There`s a real division between his polling performance and his endorsements.
He`s gone up a little in the polls, but he`s nowhere near the front, but it does
feel like the momentum toward him from these folks who are looking for a kind of
establishment vessel continues.

COSTA: And look at the map. Christie`s putting all of his chips on New
Hampshire. He`s running a different race than Rubio. Where`s Rubio this week?
He`s going to be in Alabama, part of that March 1st Super Tuesday primary.
Rubio`s running much more of a national campaign. Christie`s banking on New
Hampshire.

HAYES: And does Rubio have the kind of infrastructure and funding to play out a
long game strategy?

COSTA: He doesn`t have Bush-type money when it comes to the super PACs, but
Rubio is running a national operation. He has a large team in South Carolina. He
has people spread throughout the Super Tuesday states, getting them on the
ballot.

The Rubio play is do well in Iowa. He`s been there a lot as well, more than
Christie in a sense. Try to come out of the top, the first few races in the top
three, be in it for the long haul. Christie in his way is trying to get a big
bounce out of New Hampshire.

HAYES: All right. Robert Costa, thanks for joining us.

COSTA: Thank you.

HAYES: Still ahead, a look at the political tiptoeing of some 2016 candidates
when asked to talk about the Planned Parenthood shooting.

HAYES: The suspect in the Colorado Springs Planned Parenthood attack made his
first court appearance today.

Wearing a protective vest and appearing via closed circuit TV, Robert Dear was
informed he faces first-degree murder charges, which could bring the death
penalty. He was held without bond.

Dear barricaded himself in the Colorado Springs facility Friday and allegedly
shot and killed three people, including a police officer, and wounded nine
others.

Although Dear`s full motives are not completely known, the phrase "no more baby
parts" has been attributed to him by two senior law enforcement officials
speaking to NBC News, along with a rant including mention of President Obama.

The "baby parts" phrase seems to be a clear reference to a series of heavily
edited videos released by anti-abortion activists that purported to show Planned
Parenthood, quote, "selling parts for profit," which would be illegal and which
Planned Parenthood has argued persuasively was not happening.

The political fallout since Friday`s attack has been very intense, and the
president of Planned Parenthood of the Rocky Mountains pointed to the heated
rhetoric that has become a daily fact of the abortion debate, particularly over
the past few months.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

VICKI COWART, PRESIDENT AND CEO OF PLANNED PARENTHOOD ROCKY MOUNTAINS: We`ve
experienced so much hateful language, hateful speech, such a negative
environment has been created around the work that Planned Parenthood does.

I can`t believe that this isn`t contributing to some folks, mentally unwell or
not, thinking that it`s okay to target Planned Parenthood, or to target abortion
providers.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: Anti-abortion politicians in the GOP have either steered clear of comment
or condemned the shooting, while also attempting to dismiss any possible link
between rhetoric and violence.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CARLY FIORINA, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: So what I would say to anyone who
tries to link this terrible tragedy to anyone who opposes abortion or opposes
the sale of body parts, is this is typical left-wing tactics.

Any protesters should always be peaceful, whether it`s Black Lives Matter or
pro-life protesters. Protesters should always be peaceful and respectful.

BEN CARSON, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Obviously, you know, any hate crime is a
horrible thing, no matter from where it comes, and should be condemned very
strongly.

PAUL RYAN, SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE: This murder that occurred in Colorado, is
tragic. It is a criminal act. We don`t fully know the motivations of this
deranged individual. We know that he was a man who registered to vote as a
woman, and the media promptly wants to blame him on the pro-life movement, when
at this point there`s very little evidence to indicate that.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It was reported he said, "no more baby parts" as he was
apprehended.

RYAN: Well, it`s also been reported that he was registered as an Independent and
as a woman and a transgendered leftist activist.

If that`s what he is, I don`t think it`s fair to blame on the rhetoric on the
left. This is a murder.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: Just to be clear, there`s no evidence, by the way, the suspect was a
quote, "transgendered leftist activist." I`m not quite sure where that came
from.

Some Democrats, including DNC chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz, have called the
attack an act of terrorism. There`s certainly an impulse by many, widely shared
to insist that we call this an act of domestic terrorism, particularly since
that word has such political power.

I think that`s a bad idea. I`ll explain, next.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Regardless of why he did it, what he did is domestic
terrorism, and what he did is absolutely abominable. Especially to those of us
in the pro-life movement. Because there`s nothing about any of us that would
condone or in any way look the other way at something like this.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: Joining me now, Rebecca Traister, writer at large from New York Magazine,
and Jessica Gonzalez-Rojas, she`s executive director of the National Latina
Institute for Reproductive Health.

So, here`s my argument about domestic terrorism. I think there`s an impulse to
label things domestic terrorism as a means of saying this is an act of political
violence and it`s important, important and we should marshal the kind of concern
over it that we marshal over, say, the Boston Marathon bombing, right? Which,
let`s be clear, killed less people. Fewer people.

But it also strikes me that going -- calling lots of things terrorism is not
really a long-run political solution to any of the kind of violence we face, and
in fact, lots of things we label terrorism we don`t go about combating in a
particularly useful way.

REBECCA TRAISTER, NEW YORK MAGAZINE: I agree. It kind of repeats the sin.

HAYES: It`s a way of sort of leveling everything up, without sort of taking them
on. Will this actually solve the problem?

TRAISTER: I think a lot of the clamor for it comes from, here is an instance in
which this terrible event hits at a number of facets of what have been expressed
in Republican extremism as extreme rhetoric, right?

It is certainly -- it seems to be about abortion. It certainly took place at a
Planned Parenthood clinic. Whatever his motives are, all we know is that he was
muttering about baby parts.

I mean, this hits hard at a right-wing talking point over the last few months.
It hits at issues of gun control. It hits at the way that Republicans have been
talking about the dangers of letting Syrian refugees enter for fear that they`re
going to do violence, right? It hits at a lot of these things.

And I think there`s a hunger on the part of people on the left to hit back,
right? And say look at what this is. And that`s where that impulse toward
calling it an act of terrorism comes from.

JESSICA GONZALEZ-ROJAS, NATIONAL LATINA INSTITUTE FOR REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH: And I
think we have to remember that this doesn`t happen in a vacuum, but the years
and years of anti-choice activist, legislatures and organizations repeating hate
speech, violent hate speech, that this fuels and breeds this kind of action.

So I think we need to recognize that, who`s responsible.

HAYES: Okay, but let me push back on that.

I think the argument that people in the anti-abortion camp will make is look,
there are millions of Americans who are morally opposed to abortion, who conduct
themselves, they go to the March for Life, they do all this stuff, they vote for
politicians, and there`s this horrible violent murder, alleged, right? And he
has nothing to do with us.

In the same way that I remember when that guy murdered two cops in New York
City, right? He had a hashtag of -- about Black Lives Matter or something. It
was very evident to me that had nothing to do with the Black Lives Matter
movement.

Is that a fair distinction or is it something different?

TRAISTER: Yeah, I think that`s very fair. I think people can go too far, and
there have been suggestions that the bitter rhetoric voiced by some in the
anti-abortion movement and by Republicans, you know, it gets a little nervous to
make the allusion too close between that and the actions of one violent
individual who has committed a mass murder and mass injuries.

I do think that there are some stronger links.

For example, Ted Cruz, who was one of the first Republican candidates to come
out and condemn the attacks, and I was glad to hear him do it because they`d
been silent for about a day, earlier in the week he had celebrated the
endorsement of an activist who has directly advocated for violence, and who has
written in a book that he supports the execution of abortionists. That`s a guy
whose endorsement Ted Cruz was celebrating several days before.

That`s a pretty direct link. That doesn`t mean that Ted Cruz was advocating--

HAYES: No. Right.

TRAISTER: But it`s a link between somebody who`s advocating actual violence.

HAYES: And Jessica, as you say right, I mean, since 1977, eight murders, 17
attempted murders, bombings and arson.

There`s a history here, in fact, there was a bulletproof vest in a safe room in
that Planned Parenthood.

GONZALEZ-ROJAS: And I think we have to pull it out from the individual people
and look at the systemic issues.

Words have consequences. When you spew hateful rhetoric, when you spew
dehumanization of women providers, clinic staff, that leads to this kind of
action. And I think we need to look at it much more systemically than the
particular action of particular people and call it what it is.

HAYES: Well, what is it, then?

GONZALEZ-ROJAS: Well, it is domestic terrorism.

HAYES: You think it is?

GONZALEZ-ROJAS: Yeah. And I do think that we have to look at the consequences
that we need to face in terms of prosecuting and pursuing the dangers this
individual has put -- that the lives he`s put in jeopardy. And the violence that
providers and clinicians and people have faced in just receiving the services
for themselves, their health, their family, their future.

So, I think it`s really critical to call it what it is and ensure that we`re
advocating for the safety of our community. And I`m so grateful that Planned
Parenthood is continuing to provide services, because it doesn`t spark fear. It
actually galvanizes so many in our community to ensure that women and families
are able to get the care that they need.

TRAISTER: I think you made such an important point about some of the philosophy
behind language, and one of the things that has happened in the debate over
abortion in recent decades has been the dehumanization of the women who require
reproductive health services, the doctors who provide them, with the focus
entirely -- the moral focus having been shifted by abortion opponents to the
fetus.

HAYES: And the other thing that strikes me here is that this is a little window
into the fact that if you -- just how, you know, we hear abortion is murder,
right? That is very frequent. They`re killing babies. Right? This is the common
rhetoric. That`s mainstream anti-abortion rhetoric.

To think for a second about what that would mean if you believed that, if you
took that seriously, right? I mean, America is undergoing essentially a mass
slaughter, a Holocaust, right?

I mean, there are millions of abortions in America every year. If you think that
is -- if you think that it`s murder and you think that the entire institutional
structure of American life is essentially complicit in this ongoing murder,
that`s a pretty intense thing to think about the state of America.

GONZALEZ-ROJAS: I think that no matter how you feel about abortion, it is shown
and the polling shows that people support woman`s ability to get the health care
that she needs.

So, that`s a strong value for the Latino community that we work with, to show
support and to not judge someone who`s not ready to become a parent.

So that`s an important value no matter how you feel about abortion.

HAYES: Right. I mean, but that gets to the point that people can abstractly say
one thing about their feelings about abortion, and then when you sort of drill
down and push on that polling, you end up getting different results.

GONZALEZ-ROJAS: Mm-hmm.

TRAISTER: Yes. And that`s very true.

The other thing is that I`m not sure that even the most heartfelt personal
beliefs that abortion is murder leads us logically to the justification of other
murder. Right?

In part --

HAYES: One would hope.

TRAISTER: One would hope.

HAYES: Because I think there are millions of Americans who do believe it is.

TRAISTER: Right. You can call -- you can describe the intensity without it
helping -- without making this make -- or make any more sense.

HAYES: People should read my colleague`s (inaudible) interviews with a bunch of
people in the movement who flirt with essentially outright justification.

TRAISTER: They pretty much do justify it.

HAYES: Rebecca Traister and Jessica Gonzalez-Rojas. Thank you very much.

Coming up, the first of six back-to-back trials started today for the officers
charged in relation to the death of Freddie Gray. What happened inside that
courtroom, ahead.

HAYES: In the wake of the murder in Planned Parenthood in Colorado Springs,
we`ve actually been working on a long feature about abortion rights in this
country, about some of the rhetoric directed at abortion providers, the threats
that one abortion provider in particular faces, and the ways in which the
anti-abortion movement has managed to restrict access to abortion in a way that
almost mirrors what it was like for women before the landmark Roe V. Wade
decision.

We`re going to bring you that report tomorrow night. You don`t want to miss it.

HAYES: Today, seven months after 25-year-old Freddie Gray died from injuries
sustained in Baltimore police custody, jury selection for the first police
officer to go on trial in connection with his death began.

Officer William Porter, who`s been charged with manslaughter, assault,
misconduct, and reckless endangerment is accused of failing to get Gray medical
help while he was in a police van following his April arrest.

He has pled not guilty to all charges.

Porter`s is just the first of what will be six back-to-back, high- profile
trials for the officers charged in Gray`s death.

Earlier today, as protesters gathered outside the courthouse, dozens of
potential jurors, who will remain anonymous, were questioned about their
knowledge of the case. That process is expected to take several days with the
trial itself wrapping by mid December.

Prosecutors have said that they are trying Officer Porter first because they
consider him a "material witness" against two other officers, according to the
Baltimore Sun.

The trials come at a time when the city of Baltimore is still experiencing a
tremendous amount of tumult following the unrest in April. And today, the city
girds itself for what will likely be a very tense several months.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JUSTIN FENTON, THE BALTIMORE SUN: I think that what happened that day in April
where things boiled over, I think that`s a very sort of organic, you know,
unusual incident. I don`t see that happening again.

But, at the same time, I think that this trial and these trials as they
continue, there`s a sense in the community of uneasiness and, you know, what
might happen.

We don`t know what could happen based on the way these trials go.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: Next month we`ll be going back to Baltimore for an in-depth look at what
led to the unrest in April and what it`s meant for the city in the months since.
You don`t want to miss that.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: For I believe in the words of Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr., that there is such a thing as being too late. And when
it comes to climate change, that hour is almost upon us.

But if we act here and if we act now, if we place our own short-term interests
behind the air that our young people will breathe and the food that they will
eat and the water that they will drink and the hopes and dreams that sustain
their lives, then we won`t be too late for them.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: Today, Barack Obama joined world leaders in Paris for one of the most
high-stakes, important negotiations of his entire presidency.

The climate talks in Paris, which kicked off today, will, simply put, help
determine whether or not the international community manages to put in place a
system of binding, accountable system to keep the planet`s temperature rise in a
non-catastrophic window.

And across the world the negotiations are being watched extremely closely.

In the Philippines protesters yesterday marched calling for swift action on
climate change. In Yemen people gathered on the streets of Sana`a on the eve of
the Paris talks. In Indonesia thousands took to the streets of Jakarta in the
name of climate justice.

Meanwhile, in Paris over 100 people have been arrested after clashes with police
over the weekend during an action leading up to the beginning of the climate
gathering.

Back here at home, congressional Republicans are readying an attack on the
president`s climate agenda in anticipation of the international climate talks.

Both senate majority leader Mitch McConnell and house majority leader Kevin
McCarthy railed against the president`s climate policies.

Tomorrow, the house is scheduled to take the rhetoric one step further, voting
on two resolutions that would undo the administration`s landmark carbon
emissions standards for power plants, which is the crown jewel of the
president`s climate agenda thus far.

Joining me now, Tony Dokoupil, host of Greenhouse on MSNBC, and a man who`s
headed to Paris very soon.

Okay. So, I don`t know anything about -- let`s say I know nothing about the
climate talks. What are they talking about? What are they doing?

TONY DOKOUPIL, MSNBC POLITICAL REPORTER: You have to know that every now and
then, we on this earth do something to really, really damage the place and we
have to take action.

Back in the `80s we had a big hole in the ozone layer, we had to fix that. Then,
in the `90s we had an acid rain problem, really problematic, we had to do
something to fix that.

Now, we have this global warming problem. We keep putting stuff in the air and
it`s making it get really, really hot, and storms are getting stronger and ice
is melting and oceans are getting further into our property.

It`s a problem and we have to do something now, and if we don`t, it`s going to
be a bigger problem for our kids and even bigger problem for their kids.

HAYES: Okay. I want to start with those first two (inaudible) because I think
this is so important for people to understand.

When I hear oh, climate talks, I think like who are we -- they`re not going to
do anything. It`s all hopeless, it`s not going to work. All these people are
going to get together, nothing`s going to come out of it.

But the ozone problem, right, we were putting these CFCs in the air, they were
putting a hole in the ozone layer that was bad, all these different countries
had to come together. We actually did have like a binding treaty that completely
worked.

DOKOUPIL: Totally successful.

HAYES: 100%. Countries came together and they actually did fix it.

DOKOUPIL: But there are about 20 reasons to doubt success this time, and those
20 reasons are the 20 prior climate talks that have occurred since 1992, where
nothing has resulted.

Emissions, which caused this warming, have gone up 60% since we first started
talking about it. So the opposite of what you would hope.

And yet, this time is different. For the first time we have over 150 countries
already coming to the table saying we know it`s a problem and we`re going to
pledge to make a difference. They`ve already said that.

You don`t have to like twist their arms to get that deal at the end. They`ve
already said we get it, we`re going to change.

HAYES: One of the things you see in American political discourse around this
issue, and you see it particularly from the right, is this idea that like
climate change is this like boutique issue for kind of like affluent liberals
who like whole foods. And, it`s so disconnected from how central this issue is
across huge swaths of the world.

DOKOUPIL: It`s about the habitability of the planet going forward.

Literally it`s on that scale of a problem. And Obama was mocked again by people
on the political right today for comparing the terrorism threat to the climate
threat, and saying climate change is a bigger threat.

And that is not ridiculous because that`s what his military leaders are saying.
The Department of Defense puts out this big priority report every four years
about what we`re scared about, and climate change is in there as a threat
multiplier.

I`ve personally sat with the chief combat climatologist in the air force and I
was like, what are the generals asking you? And they`re like, they want to know
where the next starvation zone related to climate change is going to be. Where
the guys with the machetes are going to come through because they don`t have the
resources they used to have.

Hot spots develop because of heat and then they become hot spots in terms of
human conflict as a result.

HAYES: So, we`ve got this huge collective action problem. All these countries
are going to have to come forward. And you`ve got an issue where basically you
want everyone else to try to pick up the check. It`s like --

DOKOUPIL: It`s like a dinner.

HAYES: Ari Shapiro did a good piece. I should credit Ari Shapiro at the NPR
where he sort of used this metaphor where you kind of want to -- like, if you`re
there long enough and maybe you ordered an appetizer and you`re one of three
people, but like maybe you can sort of get away with like getting everyone else
to pay for your appetizer. That`s the basic dynamic at these talks, right?

DOKOUPIL: But it`s a little more complicated. You have to pay for the food now
but there`s still going to be more food coming out and you have to decide who
gets it.

This is an issue of all the oil -- the problem here is oil and gas and fossil
fuels. We`re burning it. That`s causing the pollution. That`s why everything`s
heating up.

We have a lot of that stuff in the ground. We can`t burn it all. If we burn it
all the planet will become uninhabitable in many areas.

So now we have to decide, okay, all you countries of the world, who gets to burn
the remaining fuel?

It`s kind of like, we`ve got two bottles of wine coming, but not everyone gets
to drink it.

HAYES: So here`s a useful term. You have like a carbon budget, so let`s just say
for simplicity, there`s a hundred units of carbon left that we can safely burn,
and then the question becomes a classic distributional question, which is who
gets what out of that budget. Right? How much does Kenya get and how much does
Japan get?

DOKOUPIL: So, here`s what`s really scary right now. The pledges in Paris right
now are so minor that America, China, and the EU combined take up the entire
world`s budget in the next three decades.

HAYES: Let`s just look at what emissions look like so people get a sense.

Basically, it`s China, the U.S., and the EU are the sort of biggest emitters.
You see India, Russia, Japan. Everyone else in the world that are not named
countries there --

DOKOUPIL: Billions.

HAYES: Billions of people are 30%, right?

So, we`re going to have to figure out a way of both getting accountability and
some sort of distributional justice.

Tony Dokoupil who`s going to Paris. We`ll be checking in with you next week I
suspect.

That is All In for this evening. The Rachel Maddow Show starts right now.

Good evening, Rachel.

THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE
UPDATED.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 113001cb.478

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript

                       Copyright 2015 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              Copyright 2015 MSNBC


                               6 of 24 DOCUMENTS


                                     MSNBC

                            November 30, 2015 Monday

                    SHOW: THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW 9:00 PM EST

THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW for November 30, 2015

BYLINE: Rachel Maddow, Chris Jansing

GUESTS: Cecile Richards

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 7597  words



HIGHLIGHT: Senator Ted Cruz is in a bad position as a political leader here
because of the way he has touted endorsements from people on the violent end of
anti-abortion extremism who have said publicly and repeatedly that abortion
doctors ought to be killed. Interview with Cecile Richards, president of Planned
Parenthood Federation of America. World leaders are optimistic about reaching
climate deal.


RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: Good evening, Chris. Thanks, my friend.

CHRIS HAYES, "ALL IN" HOST: You bet.

MADDOW: And thanks to you at home for joining us this our.

In November 1994, a doctor named Garson Romalis was at home eating breakfast in
his kitchen. His wife and his daughter were at home with him as well. His
breakfast table was apparently next to a sliding glass door inside his home in
this nice neighborhood where he lived on the west side of the city of Vancouver.

And as Dr. Romalis was sitting there eating his breakfast at his breakfast
table, somebody fired two bullets from a high-powered rifle through that sliding
glass door into his home. One of those bullets hit him in the thigh. It actually
got him in the femoral artery. He very easily could have died once that artery
was hit. He reportedly saved his own life by making a tourniquet out of the belt
on his bathrobe and cinching that tourniquet around the wound in his thigh. And
Dr. Romalis survived that assassination attempt.

Dr. Romalis was a gynecologist who sometimes provided abortions. And
anti-abortion protesters had previously picketed at his house in Vancouver. But
that attempted murder in Vancouver, November 1994, that was the first time
anybody had tried to assassinate an abortion doctor in Canada.

The next one was a year later. Same M.O. Dr. Hugh Short was a gynecologist in
Ontario right near Niagara Falls, right near the American border. He was sitting
inside his house in November 1995. He was watching TV. And this time, the
high-powered rifle round came through a window of his home. It got him in the
elbow. And he too survived that assassination attempt.

Then, the next one was two years later. It was November 1997. Dr. Jack Fainman
was at home in Winnipeg. He was watching TV at home. His wife was also at home
with him but she was in another room, and a high- powered rifle round was shot
through the window and very nearly killed him. That bullet hit the doctor in his
right shoulder.

At that time, Dr. Jack Fainman was the head of obstetrics and gynecology at a
major hospital in Winnipeg but that rifle round shattered his shoulder. And
after that injury, he never worked as a doctor again.

And for all three of those shootings, it was the same M.O., bullets from a
high-powered rifle fired through the window or through another glass entryway
into the home, 1994, 1995, 1997.

In all of those cases, those doctors who did abortions, they were injured by
that gunfire but not killed. And in each of those instances, the shooter got
away. And then there was a fourth one. It had been `94, `95, `97. The fourth one
was 1998.

And this one was not far from his second attack. This one was just south of the
Niagara Falls area on the American side of the border this time. This was a
sniper attack, 1998, was another doctor who did abortions who was targeted just
on the U.S. side of the border near Niagara Falls in a town called Amherst, New
York. Quite near Buffalo, New York.

Dr. Barnett Slepian was home with his family. He was standing in the kitchen of
his home along with his other family members. He and his family had just
returned from his father`s funeral service. And again, high- powered rifle
rounds came in through the window. And in this case the doctor was killed.

Initially, the sniper got away again. He ended up leading police on an
international manhunt that lasted for years. He was known to have dozens of
aliases and multiple passports and apparently, people helping him out at
multiple steps along the way. He is known to have spent time in Mexico and in
Ireland and in France.

And it was ultimately not until early 2001 that he was finally captured in
France and extradited to the United States. He was a named suspect in the three
attempted assassinations of those three Canadian doctors in 1994, 1995, 1997. He
was a named suspect in all three of those attempted murders. But when he was
tried and convicted of Dr. Slepian`s murder, he ended up with a life sentence in
this country, and so the Canadians decided to drop proceedings against him in
the shootings of those three preceding doctors. Those legal proceedings against
him were dropped.

But the odyssey of just that one killer from the first shots that he fired at
that first doctor to face an assassination attempt in Canada in Vancouver in
1994, from that start until this guy was finally locked up for life in 2003,
that nearly decade-long odyssey spanned at least five countries, involved a law
enforcement effort literally the world over.

But when they did finally get that guy, turns out he was not a unique case. You
could just slot him right into a long line of people who have shot at and
attempted to kill and killed not just doctors who provide abortions but also
people who work at abortion clinics, people who have found themselves at
abortion clinics when anti-abortion extremists decide to carry out their
attacks.

Ultimately, people have given up their lives trying to protect clinics and
abortion providers from the repeated and determined campaign of assassination
and terrorism that has targeted these kinds of facilities and these kinds of
health workers for so many years now.

In March 1993, it was Dr. David Gunn in Pensacola. He was shot three times in
the back when he arrived at the clinic where he worked during an anti-abortion
protest.

In July 1994, it was Dr. John Britten who was shot and killed along with a
retired Air Force officer who was acting basically as a security guard for that
doctor at that clinic. His name was James Barrett. His wife June Barrett was
also shot and wounded in that same attack.

In December 1994, it was two different clinics that did abortions in Brookline,
Massachusetts. The same gunman attacked both facilities, killed a receptionist
who worked at each of those clinics. Shannon Lowney was killed at the first
clinic. Leanne Nichols was killed at the second clinic.

The previous year in 1993 it was an attempted murder. It was an anti-abortion
activist named Shelly Shannon who had shot a doctor who did abortions in Kansas,
a doctor named George Tiller. She shot him through the arms in the parking lot
of his clinic. Dr. George Tiller survived that attack. He went back to work the
very next day.

Ultimately, it wasn`t until 2009 when they finally got him, a different
anti-abortion extremist who had apparently been inspired by the earlier attack
and by the string of attacks like them in this country. He went back at Dr.
Tiller in Kansas again, shot and killed him in 2009 as Dr. Tiller was serving as
an usher at his local church.

We remember the 1996 Atlanta Olympics bombing for a number of bizarre
circumstances around that bombing, right? Remember the wrong man, a security
guard who had tried to help in the response to the bombing was initially blamed
for having committed it. We also remember the real perpetrator of the attack, a
guy named Eric Rudolph, getting away and evading capture for years and becoming
kind of an anti-abortion folk hero as he lived as a thief and a
pseudo-survivalist and evaded capture for so long.

What is less well-remembered about the Atlanta Olympics bombing, which did kill
one person, is that Eric Rudolph said he bombed the Atlanta Olympics
specifically to punish America for the sin of abortion. And what is even more
frequently forgotten about Eric Rudolph is that while he was on the lam, while
he was on the run after the Atlanta Olympics bombing, he also committed another
fatal bombing at an abortion clinic in Birmingham, Alabama.

He set off a nail bomb, set it off by remote control. It killed an off-duty
police officer who was working security for the clinic. That officer`s name was
Robert Sanderson. That same nail bomb also badly injured a nurse who worked at
that clinic. Her name is Emily Lyons.

And now, we have new names to add to that almost unbelievably long list. At the
Planned Parenthood clinic that was attacked by what appears to be a lone gunman
on Friday in Colorado Springs. There are nine people who were injured in that
attack, most of whom are still hospitalized tonight.

But we also now have the names of the three people who were shot and killed in
that attack. The first one to be identified was Police Officer Garrett Swasey.

Police have also now identified the other two people who were killed in the
attack. One was an army veteran who had served in the Iraq war. His name was
Ke`Arre Stewart. He was 29 years old. The other person who was killed was
Jennifer Markovsky. She was a 35-year-old mother of two who had moved to
Colorado when her husband was stationed in Colorado because of his service in
the military.

And so, Officer Garrett Swasey and Ke`arre Stewart and Jennifer Markovsky,
they`ve joined this long list of people who have been killed at the site of U.S.
clinics that provide abortions. And this happens at a time when abortion
providers have been expressing alarm and have basically been asking for help in
defending themselves against a recent uptick in attacks, physical attacks on
clinics.

Just this month before the Colorado Springs attack on Friday, NARAL had started
circulating a letter asking the Department of Justice to please investigate the
surge in recent attacks on abortion clinics as acts of domestic terrorism. They
cited the videos released this summer by anti- abortion activists that targeted
Planned Parenthood as a sort of catalyst for this uptick in attacks.

NARAL says in their letters to Attorney General Loretta Lynch, quote, "Beginning
in July, when the video was first released and continuing in recent weeks, there
have been multiple arson attacks and an outrageous number of threats to U.S.
abortion providers.

Since the first anti-Planned Parenthood video was released, there have been four
arson attacks at Planned Parenthood clinics across the country, in New Orleans,
in Pullman, Washington, in thousand oaks, California, and in Aurora, Illinois.
Just last month, that clinic in Claremont, New Hampshire, was attacked. Someone
broke out and used a hatchet to destroy equipment and exam rooms and break water
and sewer lines, flooding the entire clinic.

In addition, independent providers alongside with Planned Parenthood clinics
have reported an increase in violent threats to clinics and clinic staff. We
call on the Department of Justice to investigate these attacks as examples of
domestic terrorism."

Again, that letter was circulated by NARAL as basically a petition to be sent to
Attorney General Loretta Lynch. That was circulated this month before the
attacks in Colorado Springs.

And at this point, police have released no information about a potential motive
for the shooter in the Colorado Springs attack. There are anecdotal reports that
the shooter seemed to be mentally unstable and conspiratorial. His criminal
record involves threatening behavior and violence, particularly toward women.

The "Post and Courier" newspaper in South Carolina reports tonight that the
suspect in the Planned Parenthood shootings was charged with rape in North
Charleston, South Carolina, in 1992. It`s unclear whether that rape charge was
ultimately dropped or what happened to that part of this man`s criminal record.
That again being reported tonight by "The Post and Courier" in Charleston, South
Carolina.

There have been two law enforcement source that`s have told NBC News that among
the statements made by the shooter once he was arrested by the police was the
phrase, quote, "No more baby parts", which could just be crazy talk. It could
also imply some sort of anti-abortion motivations for the shootings. We just do
not know.

And so, we are left with this incomplete picture, where we do have some known
knowns but we don`t have the full picture, right? We`ve got an incomplete
picture. We`ve got three people dead. We`ve got nine people wounded.

For once in an incident like this, we`ve got a person in custody. We`ve got this
nine-hour standoff that terrorized this community in Colorado and no public
statements so far from the gunman or statements that police are willing to
attribute to him. We`ve got no definitive statement from police or prosecutors
as to what they believe motivated this incident or this killer.

But it also happened inside a Planned Parenthood clinic amid a nationwide
upsurge of violent threats, attacks and arson attacks committed against Planned
Parenthood clinics and other abortion clinics across the country.

And it comes after this decades-long history of more or less mentally unbalanced
armed people motivated by anti-abortion ideology assassinating people at
facilities that provide abortions.

And so that is our set of known facts, direct and circumstantial. With that
context in mind, while people are still in the hospital fighting for their
lives, while the dead have yet to be buried, what would your reaction be if you
were running for president of the United States and you were asked to respond to
this set of facts? What would you say if you were asked?

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

REPORTER: Do you think the rhetoric involved in the Planned Parenthood videos in
this race had any impact or effect on the (INAUDIBLE)?

SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Well, I think there has been some
vicious rhetoric on the left blaming those who are pro-life.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MADDOW: Senator Ted Cruz of Texas speaking with reporters in Iowa about his
reaction to the Planned Parenthood shooting at that Colorado Springs clinic.
Senator Cruz volunteering that it may be vicious rhetoric on the left that
should be looked at in terms of understanding these shootings.

And, you know, a number of presidential candidates have had more or less
partisan or more or less sort of blame the victim kinds of responses to these
attacks and we can talk about that in detail at some other time. I want to talk
specifically about Senator Cruz, though, because Senator Cruz is linked to this
issue in one very specific way of his own making.

Because Senator Cruz as a presidential candidate has gone out of his way just in
the past couple of weeks to court and celebrate and brag about his own
affiliation with people who are at the very radical, bleeding edge of
anti-abortion extremism and violence. And I`m not talking about just mainstream
anti-abortion, mainstream pro-life figures. What I mean specifically is that two
weeks ago Ted Cruz put out this statement touting the fact he had been endorsed
by a man named Flip Benham.

Flip Benham is an anti-abortion activist who was convicted a couple of years ago
of stalking an abortion doctor in North Carolina. He passed out hundreds of
"wanted" posters with the doctor`s photo on them and the doctor`s name on them.
They said "wanted" on them.

A jury only took about 90 minutes to find him guilty of stalking that doctor. He
was convicted of that stalking in 2011. Ted Cruz is touting his endorsement by
that convicted stalker now in 2015. Ted Cruz also put out this lengthy statement
praising his endorsement recently by the head of Operation Rescue. Operation
Rescue is the group behind the aforementioned videos that started this spike in
anti-abortion extremist violence that really took off this summer.

Troy Newman, the head of Operation Rescue, argued in this book that the U.S.
government should execute abortion providers. After one of those murders that I
you just described at the top of this segment, after the double murder committed
by Paul Hill, this anti-abortion activist, walked up to a clinic in Pensacola,
Florida and shot the doctor and shot the retired air force officer who was
trying to protect that doctor and shot the Air Force officer`s wife as well and
almost killed her. After that multiple murder this guy, who Ted Cruz is now
touting the endorsement of, put out a statement lamenting that the murderer in
that case, the assassin, was not allowed to present a defense in court claiming
that the killing of the abortionist in that case was, quote, "necessary."

After the killer in that case was convicted and sentenced, Troy Newman said
there was, quote, "no justice in that case because the court prevented the
killer from preventing the legal defense that his conduct was justifiable
defensive action." In other words, that the abortion provider needed to be
killed. Troy Newman, who Ted Cruz is so proud to have an endorsement from, he
put out a press release specifically touting the endorsement of Troy Newman.

As I mentioned, he runs an organization called Operation Rescue. The person with
whom he runs Operation Rescue is a convicted clinic bomber who`s spent time in
prison for having tried to blow up an abortion clinic in San Diego. This guy who
Ted Cruz is so proud to have endorsed him, he`s touting this endorsement as a
reason to vote for Ted Cruz for president, this guy Troy Newman to this day
maintains an online list of names and addresses and up-close photos of
individual abortion providers for the convenience of the anti-abortion movement.

Do you know anybody who works at a Planned Parenthood clinic? Do you know
anybody who works as an abortion provider? Have you ever checked any of the
anti-abortion extremist Web sites to see if they`re listed there with their
photo and their address and everything?

So, all the candidates are going to get asked about a terrorizing attack in a
multiple murder like this. And you would hope for the best. You would hope for
leadership and compassion and good judgment from a leader on an issue like this.
Specifically in this case, when we don`t know anything from police about what
might have motivated the attack, you`d hope that nobody would get out over their
skis in terms of assigning meaning to events and actions which are as yet
officially unexplained.

But Ted Cruz, alone among them, he is in a weird position of his own making
because of how much he has cozied up to the people who have literally justified
and all but encouraged physical attacks on abortion providers in the past or
even who have been involved in those incidents themselves. He has put himself in
a weird position on the subject already. And so, maybe he`s just feeling the
pressure from that or something. I don`t know.

But for whatever reason, Ted Cruz, after singling out vicious rhetoric on the
left, Ted Cruz in that same interaction with reporters about this incident came
up with the single strangest response to this crisis and this attack that I
think anybody could have imagined.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CRUZ: We don`t fully know the motivations of this deranged individual. We know
that he was a man who registered to vote as a woman. The media promptly wants to
blame him on the pro-life movement when at this point there`s very little
evidence to indicate that.

REPORTER: Well, it was reported the he said "no more baby parts" as he was
apprehended.

CRUZ: Well, it`s also reported that he was registered as an independent and a
woman and a transgendered leftist activist if that`s what he is.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MADDOW: Senator Ted Cruz is in a bad position as a political leader here because
of the way he has touted endorsements from people on the violent end of
anti-abortion extremism who have said publicly and repeatedly that abortion
doctors ought to be killed. To get away from that now he has seized on what
appears to be an inaccurate voter registration record to claim that the shooter
at this Planned Parenthood who killed three people and injured nine people must
have been in his words, quote, "a transgendered leftist activist."

OK. And maybe we`re now seeing how Ted Cruz handles high pressure situations.
Maybe we`re now seeing what Ted Cruz does when he`s backed into a corner,
especially one of his own making. But this is a very strange line from him in
the midst of a very strange campaign from him in which he has on purpose aligned
himself specifically and by name with the parts of the extremist anti-abortion
movement in this country that has veered with shocking frequency over the years
from protests and virulent charges and rhetoric over the line from that into
domestic terrorism and assassination.

Cecile Richards, the president of Planned Parenthood, joins us next.

MADDOW: So my guest for the interview tonight is the national president of
Planned Parenthood. She`s going to be here live in studio to give us her
response to what happened at that Planned Parenthood clinic Colorado Springs on
Friday, that rampage there that killed three people and injured nine.

Again, the president of Planned Parenthood, Cecile Richards, is here next. Stay
with us.

MADDOW: Today was the first court appearance of the man accused of killing three
people and injuring nine others at a Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado
Springs on Friday. The suspect appeared in court via closed-circuit video.

The reason it looks like he`s wearing something strange is here is he`s dressed
in what officials call a suicide prevention garment. While he was on that closed
circuit feed to the courtroom he spoke only four words - - "yes", "yes", and,
"no questions". He`s being held in jail without bond. He`s expected to be
formally charged next week.

Police have released no information about the potential motive in this case or
even basic information like what kind of weapon he used.

But the shooting in Colorado on Friday does come after a string of recent
threats and vandalism and arson at Planned Parenthood clinics and abortion
providers across the country, in Louisiana and New Hampshire and California and
Illinois and Washington state. Now with this latest attack, three people killed
and nine more injured at that clinic in Colorado.

Joining us now for the interview is Cecile Richards. She`s president of Planned
Parenthood Federation of America.

Cecile, thank you for your time tonight. I know it`s been a really hard few
days.

CECILE RICHARDS, PRESIDENT, PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA: It`s good
to see you, Rachel.

MADDOW: Was this shooter known to Planned Parenthood prior to this weekend? Was
he on your radar at all?

RICHARDS: No, he wasn`t. We`re -- you know, the whole thing came as a surprise.
And, of course, our hearts go out to the families and the victims, the victims`
families, and, of course, the many people that were injured on Friday.

It`s been extraordinary that frankly the staff in that health center as well as
law enforcement in Colorado worked so closely together to bring this to an end
and we`re really grateful for that. But it`s been a really tough time for
Planned Parenthood.

MADDOW: I think I`m right in saying this, and tell me if I`m wrong. But as far
as I understand it, you`re obviously working with police in this ongoing
investigation and as part of that, you`re not talking about whether or not any
of the folks who were injured were staffers or volunteers at the clinic.

RICHARDS: That`s correct. We`re really working with law enforcement and trying
to respect their process and the privacy of our patients and staff.

MADDOW: Can you tell me generally about either security concerns or contact with
anti-abortion demonstrators and protesters or any form of extremists at that
clinic in Colorado specifically?

RICHARDS: Sure. Well, Colorado Springs has always been the site of a lot of
protests. And, unfortunately, over the last three or four months as you kind of
mentioned earlier in the show, we`ve had renewed protests at a lot of health
centers across the country. So, we`ve been very vigilant about security.

You know, there`s kind of three things we do in the security realm. One is we
work very closely with the local law enforcement. The second is we do enormous
training with our staff all across the health centers. And the third is we
invest in the best equipment we can to protect our patients and our staff.
That`s our highest priority.

Fortunately, there in Colorado Springs, the staff were incredibly well-trained.
They took action immediately. And I really do believe that because of their
actions working closely with the police, they were able to prevent this from
becoming even a worse tragedy than it already has been.

MADDOW: It seems like from what we already know, and again, it should be clear a
lot of details of this have yet to be discussed publicly by police, but from
what we know from contemporaneous reporting, it seems like the way the gunman
was confined after his initial entry into the building, the way that he was not
able to get access to other people who were inside the building, and
specifically the existence of that camera system that police could tap into,
both to see where people were who could potentially be rescued and see where he
was, that seems like that was key to the death toll not being higher than it
already was.

RICHARDS: Well, you`re correct, and that there`s a lot of details still to be
sort of talked about publicly. But absolutely, our staff and the police worked
hand in hand. And because of a lot of the video equipment that we do have, they
were able to really follow the shooter, and to again over a series of hours
finally bring this to a conclusion and get him out of there, and get the rest of
the staff and patients out of the health center.

MADDOW: Does that -- obviously, that`s got to give you some confidence in those
protocols and the equipment that you`ve got. Will anything change? Will you do
anything differently because of this?

RICHARDS: Well, we always -- this is obviously the kind of circumstance that we
plan for but hope never happens.

MADDOW: Yes.

RICHARDS: But now that it has we`ll be looking at everything we can learn from
this to improve security for our patients and staff. That is our highest
priority. It always has been.

And as you know, I think you know, the next day actually, even despite the
tragedy of Friday, health centers were open in Colorado. They were open all
across the country, providing health care to women at Planned Parenthood health
centers. Really, folks just carried out the health care -- the needs of the
patients and I`m incredibly proud of the staff for their resilience in the face
of this kind of tragedy.

MADDOW: I don`t want to push this point too hard because again, we don`t know
anything about this gunman. Police are being very tight-lipped in terms of where
he was coming from and what might have motivated this. I also want to say that I
do not think there is a direct line between being against abortion rights and
supporting violence against abortion providers or clinics.

But is there a clear line to you, a clear place where criticism or argument does
cross over into encouraging people to act violently or inciting them to act
violently? Do you feel like there`s an identifiable place that people should be
more shy about than they are?

RICHARDS: Well, I mean, what I can tell you is from where I sit at Planned
Parenthood -- we have seen over the last three months, as there have been
renewed and aggressive attacks on -- not only on Planned Parenthood but on
abortion doctors, harassment of women at health centers, the escalation over the
last few months has been very significant.

And I do think it`s time for people in this country, elected officials, leaders,
people who want to be president of the United States, to really think carefully
about the way they talk about health care providers in this country, the way
they demonize women and the decisions they make about their pregnancies. I think
it`s time for everyone to take stock of that because I do believe words have
consequences.

MADDOW: And you think that the rhetoric in what purports to be mainstream
politics has a direct effect in non-mainstream extremist and violent --

RICHARDS: Well, I`m just saying I don`t know what the direct correlation is, but
I have never seen the kind of rhetoric we`re seeing now in this presidential
election, the demonization not only, again, of Planned Parenthood but of women
who have abortions, of doctors who provide abortions, which are safe and legal
in the United States of America. Women shouldn`t have to fear for their safety.
They shouldn`t have to be harassed just for exercising their right to health
care in America. And, unfortunately, I think that`s what we`re seeing more and
more at health centers not only in Colorado but across the country.

MADDOW: Cecile Richards, president of Planned Parenthood -- thank you for
talking to us. Again, I know there`s -- you have a lot to be managing right now
and a lot to be handling. Thanks for talking to us.

RICHARDS: Absolutely.

MADDOW: Good luck.

We`ve got a lot more to come tonight. Stay with us.

MADDOW: This is the type of Russian jet that was shot down along the
Turkish-Syrian border last week. It`s a supersonic bomber called an SU-24. Last
Tuesday, one of these Russian jets was fired at and brought down by a Turkish
military jet, by a Turkish F-16.

The Turkish government said that that Russian jet had crossed into their air
space in Turkey and so, that`s why they decided to shoot it down. It`s been six
days now since that fatal incident, and there are now two big changes that have
come about as a result of that shoot down. And they`re connected.

The first of the two big changes, number one, is that Russia and Turkey are no
longer talking to each other. There`s no more military to military communication
between the Russian military and the Turkish military as those two countries
both fly missions over the same territory in Syria.

That development, the first one, is all the more significant when you consider
the second big change that has now happened since the shoot down, which is that
Russian jets flying over Syria are now for the first time being armed with air
to air missiles. These are missiles designed to take down other airplanes.

The Russian military is now arming their jets with air to air missiles and
they`ve also reportedly been moving surface-to-air missiles into Syria for the
same purpose, potentially shooting down other planes in the region. In response
to this news today a Pentagon spokesman said this, quote, "Whether it`s putting
air to air missiles on planes or putting in surface to air missiles, those are
things that clearly are not about ISIS since ISIS doesn`t have any aircraft."

Oh, right. ISIS doesn`t have any planes. Neither do any of the other Syrian
opposition groups that Russia says it is fighting against in Syria. Most of the
non-Russian planes over Syria now are in fact ours. They`re either U.S. military
jets or they`re jets being flown by members of the U.S.-led coalition in Syria.

And those U.S. and U.S.-led coalition aircraft are now flying their missions
over Syria amid brand new Russian anti-aircraft missiles both on Russian planes
and on the ground. What could possibly go wrong?

MADDOW: New Delhi in India held a half marathon yesterday, and in one very
specific way that half marathon did not go well. More than 30,000 -- yes. Look.
More than 30,000 people ran in this race amid just stunning air pollution and
smog. Some runners actually wore face masks, wore sort of pollution masks during
the race. Two runners were reportedly taken away by ambulance. A number of
people collapsed at this half marathon. That was the scene at New Delhi
yesterday.

This was the scene in Beijing, China, today. It was an orange alert for terrible
air quality in Beijing today. Authorities urged people to stay inside unless
they absolutely had to go out. At the level of one particularly dangerous
particulate was found to be 25 times what the World Health Organization
considers to be safe. This day today, this orange alert day in Beijing, was the
single worst air quality day they have had of any day this year in that big
city.

But there was one person who was not there to experience that smog which covered
the Chinese capital today, and that was the Chinese president, who had already
left Beijing for Paris to participate in the largest gathering of world leaders
ever all in one place.

And I mean that without hyperbole. I mean, yes, every year hundreds of world
leaders gather in New York for the U.N. General Assembly, right? But that`s
spread out over a week and a half. Not everybody`s there on the same day. At the
U.N.`s Conference on Climate Change today over 150 national leaders congregated
in Paris all on the same day in the same place, the heads of more than 150
countries.

And aside from the question of whether or not those 150 world leaders are going
to achieve the kind of agreement they want to achieve, having more world leaders
in one place on a single day than ever before in human history also poses its
own logistical concerns. Obviously, security is foremost in everybody`s mind,
particularly with France under an ongoing state of emergency after the November
13th terrorist attacks in Paris. The security concerns stemming from the
terrorist attacks led France to ban all large-size protests and demonstrations
that had been planned around the climate conference.

Yesterday, though, protesters still illegally took to the streets. Police fired
tear gas to try to disperse them. They arrested over 300 protesters. They do say
almost all of the arrested protesters have now been released.

At the Place de la Republique, which has become a memorial site for the victims
of the terrorist attacks in Paris, protesters left rows and rows and rows and
rows of shoes. Thousands of shoes as a poignant silent protest about the
climate.

Other activists, artists, plastered protest posters like these at Paris bus
stops. The artists mocked up fake ads that looked totally real like this one for
Air France. We have the Air France one there? We have one for air France that
says, "Of course we`re not fighting climate change. We`re an airline." And then
there`s this Volkswagen one that says, "We`re sorry that we got caught", which
is of course about their diesel emissions thing.

They did like 600 different posters like these, fake ads, all over Paris bus
stops, for this huge climate conference.

Apart from the security concerns, though, and the climate protests bubbling up
all over Paris, there`s also just logistical concerns and the etiquette of not
stepping on giant egos, which comes from trying to make meaningful change and
trying to make sure that all these world leaders get heard and there`s time for
them to do actual work together. The conference is so crowded with very
important world leaders that some of them ended up today waiting hours for their
turn at speaking from the podium.

And those logistical issues today and the worries about sort of etiquette and
egos and how to manage all of these heads of state led today to something we are
not used to seeing in the United States, which is when our president got
publicly interrupted. And it was not a heckler. And it was not just a gentle
interruption. It was more like he was at the Oscars and the equivalent of the
orchestra started to play to try to get him off the stage.

It happened during President Obama`s speech today repeatedly, and it was a very
weird thing. Watch this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Here in Paris let`s reaffirm our
commitment (BEEP) that sources will be there for countries willing to do their
part to skip the dirty phase of development. Here in Paris let`s also make sure
that these resources flow to the countries that need help (BEEP) preparing for
the impact of climate change that we can no longer avoid.

There are hundreds of billions of dollars ready to deploy to countries around
the world if we get the signal we mean business this time. Let`s send that
signal.

(BEEP)

That`s what we seek in these two weeks.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MADDOW: Let`s send that signal. That is not the president`s elevator arriving at
its proper floor on the parking garage. That was the beep to apparently try to
tell him he was going over time.

This is the first effort to get a binding global agreement on climate in 18
years, since Kyoto. And the U.S. did not sign on to the Kyoto Agreement you
might remember.

President Obama is determined to get the United States to sign on to something
this time. But what that might be and the power of President Obama`s domestic
political opponents to try to stop him from doing that, that right now tonight
is very much a live question.

A live question that we will now put to NBC News senior White House
correspondent Chris Jansing, who joins us live from the middle of the night now
in Paris.

Chris, thank you so much for staying up to be with us.

CHRIS JANSING, NBC NEWS SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Love it. Love it. Love
being here.

MADDOW: Is there a feeling among the U.S. delegation, among people who are
covering this and who know this subject tightly, is there a feeling that there
is going to be something to sign, that there is going to be a binding agreement,
that the U.S. is going to be part of something quite different than what we have
done in the past?

JANSING: I think there`s a sense of optimism. There`s also a sense of urgency
and they kind of go together, right? I mean, when you think about first of all
what they`re doing here, it almost boggles the mind. They`re trying to get
virtually every country on earth to sign on to an agreement to say we are going
to cut our greenhouse gas emissions.

So, that is an enormous task that they`ve taken on. But I think if you listened
today, and a lot of people got those bings that the president got because a lot
of people were supposed to have only three minutes and people kept running over.
You listen to what they say, it was extraordinary.

I mean, you had Francois Hollande, who obviously is the host here, saying never
have the stakes been so high. You might not be surprised by that. But then you
hear Vladimir Putin, who hasn`t exactly been a friend to environmentalists, say
it`s one of the greatest challenges to humanity. The president presented this
kind of apocalyptic vision of what would happen if we didn`t get a climate
accord, and he tied it to when he went to Alaska and he saw the glaciers
melting, he saw the impact firsthand.

But for me, when I was listening and when I was reading the translations of some
of the really small countries, frankly places I`d never even heard of before,
tiny little island nations whose very existence is being threatened, you realize
that there is this sort of unanimity of opinion that something has got to get
done here. And remember, even after Kyoto in 2009 in Copenhagen, I mean, those
are two examples where people had been working on this issue for decades, long
before it became a part of the real lexicon, you know, got disappointed.

This time they think that there is a will that something actually could get
done. I keep asking people for percentages. They range from 70 percent to 90
percent. There are still obstacles but there is a sense here that there`s a will
to accomplish this.

MADDOW: And, Chris, in terms of that likelihood of success, are there -- you
mentioned some countries there that obviously are key to be on board and you
might not expect going along with an international effort on any subject let
alone this one. Are there specific countries that are seen as being -- kind of
being the worry point, countries that are going to be the most difficult in
terms of getting on board with reforms? Are there weak spots and people know who
those countries are?

JANSING: So, this is the other really interesting part about this, because when
you look today, the president made a very pointed decision that the first person
he was going to meet with was China`s President Xi, somebody he`s got a lot of
disagreements with, whether it`s the South China Sea or cyber security. But
they`ve been working very closely together over the last year or two to really
talk about how to move this forward.

Somebody he has a close personal relationship with and there`s been a lot of
jokes about the bromance between President Obama and Prime Minister Modi of
India, that`s a real concern here. And in fact, when you talk privately to some
folks in the White House, they bristle a little bit because there`s been so much
pushback.

One of the key questions here is between developed countries and developing
countries. As you know, India is the fastest growing democracy in the world. But
they really believe that in order for their economy to flourish, they have to be
given a lot of help -- and I`m talking hundreds of billions of dollars worth of
help to keep that moving forward. Otherwise, they need a break on these carbon
emissions.

And so, yes, it is sort of this strange bedfellows here, and behind the scenes,
that`s where a lot of the nitty-gritty work is being done, first of all, by the
president, who had that meeting and you showed the picture today of him with
Prime Minister Modi. But remember, this is going to go on for another couple of
weeks. And you`ve got thousands of delegates here, thousands of diplomats who
are going to continue to do this work to try to get this done.

MADDOW: NBC`s senior White House correspondent Chris Jansing at the U.N. Climate
Conference in Paris. Chris, again, I know it`s the middle of the night there and
you`ve had an incredible day -- thank you so much for staying up for us. I
appreciate it.

JANSING: Thanks, Rachel.

MADDOW: Super happy to have that report from Chris.

And that point about India and sort of all eyes on India right now, particularly
in light of President Obama`s really good personal relationship with the new
leader in India, it is going to be fascinating to watch. This is also one of
those rare events where you see presidents, you see heads of state doing their
own negotiating, doing their own meetings, trying to work things outs one on one
rather than just leaving it to their minions. Stuff like this doesn`t happen
very often.

We`ll be right back.

MADDOW: I have a thing for you to put on your calendar. Thanks to House Speaker
Paul Ryan and his new Thanksgiving beard.

Speaker Ryan today officially invited President Obama to deliver the 2016 State
of the Union Address. So, now we know when it`s going to be. January 12th,
Tuesday, January 12th. So, that is officially a date now.

You and me, we`re going to be here together Tuesday, January 12th. You can put
it in your calendar. You can put it in our calendar in pen. Just write SOTU, you
will remember, I swear.

MADDOW: We got one story left for you tonight. It is some really, really good
news for one presidential candidate who really needs it. It`s the sort of thing
he wouldn`t expect to have the opportunity to get until much later in the
campaign but he`s down in the dumps. It`s a really good thing. It just happened
for him and it happened early.

That story is next.

MADDOW: This weekend, Governor Chris Christie of New Jersey got the endorsement
of New Hampshire`s largest newspaper, "The New Hampshire Union Leader." And that
is great news for Governor Christie, particularly right now when he`s at the
relegated to the kids table part of his campaign. He could really use a boost.

This is an unusually early endorsement for that newspaper. That comes for
Governor Christie just in the nick of time.

However, it has also now had a secondary effect, because the editorial newspaper
at New Jersey`s largest newspaper, "The Star Ledger", is a guy named Tom Moran
who has covered Chris Christie for 14 years. And upon seeing this New Hampshire
endorsement headline for governor Christie today, Tom Moran was so flabbergasted
at that endorsement that he called up his counterpart at "The Union Leader" who
said basically, "Are of you looking at the same guy I am?"

Here`s what Tom Moran from "The New Jersey Star Ledger" wrote about this today,
quote, "The Union Leader knows almost nothing about Chris Christie`s record as
governor. Take Bridgegate, the editorial made no mention of it. How about
pension reform? The board of Manchester did not know that Christie made his core
promise on that by skipping pension payments.

The editorial said he dealt admirably with Sandy, Super Storm Sandy. That would
come to the shock at victims, 60 percent of whom say they`re dissatisfied with
the state`s response. How about the nine credit downgrades on his watch as
governor? You get the idea.

I hate to second-guess a fellow editorial board. But this editorial confirms my
worse fears about this presidential race. It`s all about performance, not
substance."

So, that`s the view from Chris Christie`s home state. But, you know, still, good
news for Chris Christie in New Hampshire. He got the big New Hampshire
endorsement which he does sort of desperately needs. He needs something good in
New Hampshire, because despite all the time he has spent in that state, he`s
still hovering around 5 percent in the polls. His national numbers are worse.

So, Governor Christie needs a boost. Maybe this endorsement will do the trick.
John McCain`s got the paper`s endorsement in `08 and went on to win the New
Hampshire primary and nomination. Again, "The Union Leader" also endorsed this
guy in 1988, a man named Pete DuPont, who finished fourth in New Hampshire and
did not go on to be the nominee. Then they picked Pat Buchanan twice, also not
the nominee.

In 2000, it was Steve Forbes who not only did not win the New Hampshire primary,
you get a gold star if you remember that he existed.

The last time around, the paper endorsed Newt Gingrich who then went on to
finish fifth in New Hampshire and not become the nominee.

So maybe this endorsement turns Chris Christie into magic or maybe it turns him
into Newt Gingrich. Back home in New Jersey, the early money is not on the magic
option.

That does it for us tonight. We`ll see you again tomorrow.

Now, it`s time for "THE LAST WORD WITH LAWRENCE O`DONNELL."

Good evening, Lawrence.

THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE
UPDATED.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 113001cb.471

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SHOW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript

                       Copyright 2015 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                           Copyright 2015 MSNBC MSNBC


                               7 of 24 DOCUMENTS


                                     MSNBC

                            November 30, 2015 Monday

            SHOW: THE LAST WORD WITH LAWRENCE O`DONNELL 10:00 PM EST

The Last Word for November 30, 2015

BYLINE: Rachel Maddow, Lawrence O`Donnell, Joy Reid

GUESTS: Vicki Cowart, David Cohen, Eli Berman, Jacob Shapiro, Jonathan Allen,
Maria Teresa Kumar

SECTION: NEWS; International

LENGTH: 7232  words



HIGHLIGHT: Pastor Darrell Scott An Endorser Of Donald Trump; Omarosa Will Be The
Highest Profile Endorser Of Trump In The Group, Not Pastor Scott, Who Is Not
Well-Known; Chris Christie Is Calling Out Trump For Lying About Having Seen
Thousands And Thousands Of People Celebrating In New Jersey On 9/11; Victims Of
The Planned Parenthood Shooting Incident; MSNBC Has Decided To Get A Head Start
On "Giving Tuesday" Right Now By Officially Launching "Giving Tuesday" On This
Program Planned Parenthood shooting suspect appears in court. President of
Planned Parenthood Rocky Mountains responds to shooting. President Obama visits
Bataclan Memorial in Paris. Obama, Putin meet to discuss Syria crisis. Lindsey
Graham urges U.S. ground troops in Syria. Trump meets with black religious
leaders. Trump cancels endorsement event with black pastors.


RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC: That does it for us tonight, we`ll see you again tomorrow,
now it`s time for THE LAST WORD with Lawrence O`Donnell, good evening Lawrence.

LAWRENCE O`DONNELL, HOST, THE LAST WORD: Rachel, you`ve got to give it to those
editors, they are not afraid of picking a loser.

(LAUGHTER)

MADDOW: That`s right, and in New Jersey, they are not afraid of picking on their
governor.

O`DONNELL: That`s right --

MADDOW: It makes for a very exciting stuff. Thanks Lawrence --

O`DONNELL: Thank you, Rachel.

MADDOW: Yes --

O`DONNELL: Well, terrorism has a new face tonight in America.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The suspected Planned Parenthood shooter appears in court.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Told he is been held on suspicion of first degree murder.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Though authorities are not making a direct connection as
far as motive.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It is a form of terrorism and maybe in some way it`s a
function of the acclamatory rhetoric that we see.

SEN. TED CRUZ (R), TEXAS: The media probably wants to blame him on the pro life
movement, when at this point there`s very little evidence to indicate.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is typical left-wing tactics.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: People have to understand that hateful rhetoric and words
and harassment of doctors and harassment of women going to health centers have
real implications.

DONALD TRUMP, CHAIRMAN & PRESIDENT, THE TRUMP ORGANIZATIONS & FOUNDER, TRUMP
ENTERTAINMENT RESORTS: We had a meeting today that was amazing.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The private meeting with 100 black pastors and religious
leaders as some of the attendees took issue with the Trump campaign`s claim that
the pastors were meant to endorse Donald Trump.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: His campaign abruptly canceled the planned press conference.

TRUMP: I don`t think we had backlash. I mean, I saw love in that room, I see --

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes --

TRUMP: Love everywhere I go.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: The man accused of murdering three people at a Planned Parenthood
clinic in Colorado, Springs, Friday, made his first court appearance this
afternoon.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The initial charge against you is murder in the first degree.
The penalty for that charge is (INAUDIBLE) of life in prison and maximum of
death. Do you have any questions about any of these rights, sir?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No questions.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: Nothing more on that, just no questions. Fifty seven-year-old Robert
Dear`s court appearance was via closed-circuit television from the jail where
he`s being held without bond.

Robert Dear is expected to be formally charged next Wednesday. Robert Dear is
accused of killing a police officer and two people who were visiting the clinic
and wounding nine others during a five-hour standoff that ended when he
surrendered.

Two law enforcement sources told Nbc News that Robert Dear ranted about politics
and abortions during questioning and at one point said, "no more body parts."

That apparently in reference to Planned Parenthood. Robert Dear`s neighbor
reported repeatedly hearing him attack President Obama. Hillary Clinton had this
reaction.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HILLARY CLINTON, FORMER SECRETARY OF STATE: The shooting on Friday was at, as
you know, a Planned Parenthood clinic.

A place where lots of women get healthcare they need; breast exams, STD testing,
contraception and, yes, safe and legal abortions.

We should be supporting Planned Parenthood, not attacking it.

(APPLAUSE)

And it is way past time for us to protect women`s health and respect women`s
rights, not use them as political footballs.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: Bernie Sanders said this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (D), VERMONT: I am running for president because in these
difficult times, against vitriolic Republican rhetoric, we must protect a
woman`s right to choose.

(APPLAUSE)

And we must defend Planned Parenthood. And I know, I know that I speak for every
person in this room when we send our condolences to the families of those who
were killed in Friday`s attack at Planned Parenthood in Colorado.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: Here is the frontrunner for the Republican presidential nomination on
"Meet the Press" yesterday.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CHUCK TODD, MODERATOR, MEET THE PRESS: We have reporting that he was talking
about baby parts and things like that from law enforcement officials during --

TRUMP: Well --

TODD: His interview --

TRUMP: I will tell you there is a tremendous group of people that think it`s
terrible -- all over the videos that they`ve seen, with some of these people
from Planned Parenthood talking about it like you`re selling parts to a car.

I mean, there are a lot of people that are very unhappy about that. Now, I know
some of the tapes were perhaps not pertinent.

I know that a couple of people that were running for office or are running for
office on the Republican side were commenting on tapes that weren`t appropriate.

But there were many tapes that are appropriate and in terms of commenting on and
there are people that are extremely upset about it.

It looks like you`re talking about parts to some machine or something and
they`re not happy about it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: And here is what Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz had to
say in Iowa today.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CRUZ: This was a despicable homicide. This was an individual who is deranged.
And I will say it`s unfortunate to see so many folks in the press bending over
backwards to try to use this horrible crime to advance a political agenda.

This man is a deranged murderer. We don`t know at this point what his
motivations were, although we can see the press eagerly salivating to suggest
that this particular murderer might have been a Republican.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: Joining us now Vicki Cowart, President and CEO of Planned Parenthood,
Rocky Mountains. This happened under your jurisdiction there.

And apparently you made -- you had some expectation of this possibility via
training and various precautions you had taken. Could you tell us about that?

VICKI COWART, PRESIDENT & CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, PLANNED PARENTHOOD, ROCKY
MOUNTAINS: Well, good evening, let me make it clear.

We had no advance warning of this event, but at Planned Parenthood, we are very
concerned and careful about the safety of all of our employees.

We place the well-being and safety of our patients and our employees at the top
of our list. And so, yes, we do have security measures and we do take our
training around those security measures very seriously.

The group -- in fact, all of our group, all of our health centers and even our
administrative offices do intruder training, shooter training, if you will, and
all of our folks do go through this on a fairly regular basis.

O`DONNELL: When did you start that? I mean, I imagine 25 years ago Planned
Parenthood did not have a training like this.

COWART: You know, we`ve been doing it as long as I have been with the
organization. And I will admit that we have gotten more serious about it.

We track, we make sure that everybody goes through it. But I`ll stress to you
that we also do tornado training.

So, this is about making sure no matter what happens, our patients and our staff
are protected and they`re safe. We want to provide a safe, warm, welcoming,
confidential setting for healthcare.

O`DONNELL: What about the staff? Have you at Planned Parenthood had any
experience with people deciding, you know what? This is just too dangerous, I`m
not going to work here anymore?

COWART: I think people do leave the organization for a variety of reasons. And
probably some of them may think that -- most of us walk past some protesters
every day, and we hear the nasty comments, the terrible things they shout at us.

But I will -- I will say to you, I`ve been with a lot of our staff today and
been in touch with some of the folks down in Colorado Springs.

The commitment that Planned Parenthood people have to the mission of providing
the women and men in our communities, good, high-quality reproductive healthcare
is astonishing.

And despite those taunts, despite some of the dangers that may be perceived,
people come in. Our health centers in Colorado and across our region were open
on Saturday.

And again, today, people proudly posted over the weekend on their Facebook, I`m
going in, I`ll be at work on Monday. And they were, we were open today across
our system.

O`DONNELL: And do you have plans for reopening the clinic in Colorado Springs?

COWART: Absolutely. We`re doing a lot of care-taking with the people there. We
will rebuild. We don`t actually have access to the site yet.

We hope that we`ll be able to take it back, the police will hand it back over to
us at some point this week and we`ll be able to assess the damage.

We know that the damage is pretty extreme. But we absolutely are committed to
that community. We`ve been serving, Colorado Springs for decades.

And we feel a really strong -- I mean, Colorado Springs is our community. We are
of that community. And so we are definitely committed to reopening.

O`DONNELL: Vicki Cowart, thank you very much for joining us tonight, really
appreciate it.

COWART: You bet.

O`DONNELL: We`re joined now by Joy Reid, Msnbc national correspondent and David
Cohen, a Professor at Drexel University`s Kline School of Law and the co-author
of "Living in the Crosshairs: The Untold Stories of Anti-Abortion Terrorism".

Joy Reid, we`ve come to the point where working at a Planned Parenthood in
America is a dangerous occupation.

JOY REID, MSNBC NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, absolutely, and as somebody who
grew up in Denver, Colorado, knows Colorado Springs very well, it is a highly
evangelical community.

It`s sort of interesting -- Denver is a sort of liberal community and then you
have Colorado Springs, we have this big evangelical base.

And I grew up in the era of operation and rescue where you had the really scary
confrontations between anti-abortion activists, in a lot of cases who were
threatening violence against clinic workers.

And somebody who got my basic healthcare from Planned Parenthood -- when I
graduated from college, I had no money.

And so, even in New York, you know, Planned Parenthood was where I got all my
healthcare, whether it`s birth control or not.

It`s eerie to sort of think about the danger to which these clinicians who I
just became used to it, just normal healthcare providers.

The fact that they go to work every day under that kind of fear and duress, that
kind of actual terror. That is the essence of what terrorism is, being afraid to
go to work.

And as somebody who has used Planned Parenthood, I can tell you, women are going
-- that get basic healthcare.

The idea you have to do that in fear because there are fellow Americans who are
threatening violence against you and against your healthcare providers, it`s
sort of surreal.

O`DONNELL: David Cohen, some people don`t want to use the word terrorism in
association with this event.

They just want to say, this was one deranged gunman and it could have been
anywhere, it could have been a movie theater, it could have been anywhere.

DAVID COHEN, LAW PROFESSOR, DREXEL UNIVERSITY, THOMAS KLINE SCHOOL OF LAW: You
know, that`s just an absolutely wrong way to look at this.

This takes place amidst the context in which there`s been this kind of violence
and hateful rhetoric that`s been going on for decades.

There have been before Friday, eight murders in this country since 1993. There
have been arsons, there have been bombings.

There have been stalking of providers following them home, picketing their
homes, following their children to school. Abortion providers and abortion
clinics deal with this kind of fear on a regular basis.

And yet, they still create these wonderfully warm environments and caring
environments for their patients because this is basic healthcare.

And women will get abortions and find these clinics and find their healthcare
provider no matter what. But they shouldn`t have to go through this. The
patients who go see these clinics or the providers who are -- who stuff them.

O`DONNELL: Well, the -- and in terms of the terrorism in this particular case,
Joy, this wasn`t targeting a physician or someone --

REID: Right --

O`DONNELL: Who the person believes is actually performing the abortions.

REID: Yes --

O`DONNELL: This is, if you go anywhere near a Planned Parenthood, if you just go
as a friend, accompanying a friend --

REID: Right --

O`DONNELL: As one of the women who was -- the woman who was killed, you are
taking your life in your hands to go --

REID: Yes --

O`DONNELL: Anywhere near the place. That is terror.

REID: That is terror because remember, the George Tiller murder took place at
his church, it didn`t take place at his clinic. This was following the person,
the man to his place of worship.

In the case of going all the way back -- operation and rescue, and some of these
other groups that targeted the place of work, you`re actually talking about 99
percent of the women who are going to Planned Parenthood are going for either
birth control, basic checkups.

You know --

O`DONNELL: Yes --

REID: Those of us who have used Planned Parenthood used them primarily for basic
healthcare; breast exams, just clinical checkups, your annual medical exams that
are required as a woman to make sure you don`t have cancer.

This is what women are going there for, and to have to walk through a gauntlet
of people who only see Planned Parenthood as some sort of murderous operation
that is forcing women into abortion.

You walk into a gauntlet of extremist. And what I think people are forgetting --

COHEN: It`s --

REID: Is that it is terrorism because you`re terrorizing not just the people who
work there, but the women who are going there just to get care.

O`DONNELL: David, go ahead.

COHEN: Yes, it`s important to understand also that abortion is basic healthcare.
Almost one in three women in this country will have an abortion.

It is basic healthcare. And whether it`s a Planned Parenthood that only provides
a small percentage of abortion or an independent abortion clinic where almost
everything they do is abortion.

All of those women should be able to walk in and get the healthcare they need
and everyone who works there should be able to work there without the fear that
there`s going to be some problem or at worse, some violence.

O`DONNELL: And David --

COHEN: And that is exactly what`s going on here.

O`DONNELL: David, quickly, before you go. Is this a new level of terror since he
was indiscriminately firing that gun in any direction, not definitely targeting
the medical personnel?

COHEN: It`s different, although we`ve seen things like this before. There was a
bombing in 1998 at a clinic that took place that could have gotten anyone.

It got a security guard who was there, this was in Alabama. There have been
other violent acts that take place while people are there who are not just the
clinic workers.

But this is different. I mean, certainly, this is different in the other murders
that have taken place in the way that he was firing a gun indiscriminately.

But it certainly fits with the long history of violence and the fact that there
are murders at these clinics.

O`DONNELL: David Cohen, thanks very much for joining us tonight. Coming up,
could the Islamic State fall, just fall on its own? Two authors who have
described that possibility will join me next.

And Donald Trump did not get the endorsement of dozens of African-American
preachers today as his campaign promised.

And on Twitter earlier today, I asked you to guess what this is --
@Briansneck(ph) tweeted some sort of a cart with a green covering.

OK, yes, that`s right, but, please, someone out there, try to guess what that
is. The answer is coming up.

O`DONNELL: President Obama visited the site of the terrorist attack at the
Bataclan Theater where 89 people were murdered.

The President stood beside French President Francois Hollande and placed a
single white flower at the memorial outside the theater.

It was the President`s first stop during his visit to Paris. Coming up, a new
strategy for defeating the Islamic State, let the Islamic State defeat itself,
that`s next.

O`DONNELL: President Obama and Russian President Vladimir Putin met on the
sidelines of the climate summit in Paris, they discussed the crisis in Syria,
according to the White House deputy national security adviser Ben Rhodes said
this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BEN RHODES, DEPUTY WHITE HOUSE NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: A lot of the focus
with President Putin today dealt with the political process that has been under
way in Vienna.

The President reiterated that this is an area where we all need to work together
and that frankly, making progress with respect to a political dialogue and a
cease-fire inside of Syria will also enable us together as an international
community to focus on ISIL.

That has been the focus of the U.S.-led coalition in Syria. We think that should
be the focus of the Russian military action in Syria.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: Vladimir Putin said this to reporters after the meeting. "We have an
understanding how we should proceed if we talk about a political settlement.

We need to work on a new Syrian constitution, new elections and control over
their outcome." Joining us now, the co-authors of a new "POLITICO" article
entitled "Why ISIL Will Fail on Its Own".

Eli Berman, "POLITICO Magazine" contributor and Jacob Shapiro, also of "POLITICO
Magazine".

Mr. Berman, make your case about just how it would work that the Islamic State
would collapse on its own and what models we might have for this.

ELI BERMAN, CONTRIBUTOR, POLITICO MAGAZINE: Sure, Lawrence, it`s good to be with
you. I mean, the basic -- the basic word here is unsustainable.

ISIS, when you think of ISIS as a state, not as a terrorist organization, but as
a state, then it`s a failing state. It`s got three sources of funds, oil,
perhaps antiquities and its ability to tax its own population.

And the oil is going to run out especially if they don`t have engineers to take
care of those wells. The antiquities have a limited market anyway, you could
only loot them once.

And so, what they`re going to fall back on or what they`re falling back on
already is their ability to tax or extort their own population.

And all the reports suggest that they`re overtaxing in a way that`s making the
people, the capital, and the human capital, just run and flee.

And so as a country, as an organization, they`re just not going to be able to
meet their bills.

O`DONNELL: And Jacob Shapiro, what do you make of Vladimir Putin`s statement
today about the way he thought they -- that they -- he could coordinate in some
ways with the United States?

JACOB SHAPIRO, CONTRIBUTOR, POLITICO MAGAZINE: I think that makes a lot of
sense, Lawrence. The basic issue I think in getting a durable solution in Syria
is not defeating ISIL.

That will happen with time to smaller organization with no tax revenue, it`s
trying to fight a three-front war. The issue is convincing the sides fighting it
that there`s a political bargain that they can become part of.

And that requires the kind of coordinated action that President Putin is arguing
for and that President Obama has been pushing for.

O`DONNELL: And Mr. Berman, as an economics professor in your piece, you draw a
comparison to the collapse of the Soviet Union. How is that relevant here?

BERMAN: Absolutely. You know, the Soviet Union collapsed not because we invaded
them, they collapsed because they imploded on their own.

As an economic ideology it failed. Now, ISIS as an (INAUDIBLE) or a dash(ph) as
an ideology of governance, they`re trying something that we know from experience
fails.

Basically a bunch of thugs looting a local population, that`s not a way that you
could possibly govern. So, if we -- if we left it alone, it would eventually
implode.

O`DONNELL: Mr. Shapiro, Lindsey Graham and others calling for troops on the
ground in -- U.S. troops and other troops on the ground in Syria. What`s your
reaction to that?

SHAPIRO: So, I think there`s not a lot of evidence that you can achieve. The
aims that they`re suggesting those troops will achieve with the numbers that are
in play.

So, this organization has been in existence since at least 2006, and for that
entire time has had the capacity to attempt attacks like the one in Paris.

And that was true when it had -- when the United States had 160,000 forces on
the ground, it`s true today when we have none on the ground.

And so sending 20,000 forces in, yes, you could pull down audacious flag from
Raqqah with 20,000 American forces and air power. But that doesn`t solve the
problem of being able to engage in terrorism overseas.

That`s the problem you`re trying to solve, you need a political settlement, and
experience in that region shows you`re not going to get that by simply taking
the capital.

O`DONNELL: And Professor Berman, what about holding the capital? There`s - -
after we`ve had this experience in that region, that after you take a place like
that, you`re going to have to hold it for, what? A decade or obviously longer
than a decade.

BERMAN: No, Lawrence, and this is a key point, I`m glad you asked. What our
experience and what we search are myself, by Professor Shapiro and by others has
shown is that what you really have to do is install or help somebody govern by
themselves.

The Sunni majority areas of Iraq and Syria need governance that answers to their
needs. They`re trying to get enough from dash(ph), that`s going to fail.

And so, a sustainable solution in the region for Syria and for Iraq requires
that Sunnis have somebody governing them who is actually responsive and cares
about the people they`re governing. That`s the hard part.

O`DONNELL: Professors Eli Berman and Jacob Shapiro, thank you both for joining
us tonight. Coming up, the endorsements that Donald Trump did not get today.

O`DONNELL: Donald Trump picked up an endorsement today from someone who has not
been a major player in presidential politics.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DR. DARRELL SCOTT, REVEREND MINISTER: We had a very productive, constructive
meeting. We made history today --

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes --

SCOTT: Because we had a meaningful dialogue with Mr. Donald Trump --

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Are you endorsing him? --

(CROSSTALK)

SCOTT: I support Donald Trump --

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Are you endorsing him?

SCOTT: And everybody knows -- everybody knows --

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And not listen to --

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Are you endorsing him?

SCOTT: Everybody knows that --

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So, are you --

(CROSSTALK)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Endorse, yes --

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Endorsement?

SCOTT: Yes!

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: That`s Pastor Darrell Scott from Ohio who along with other
African-American religious leaders met with Donald Trump today in New York.

The Trump campaign canceled a scheduled press conference after discovering that
almost everyone else at the meeting with Donald Trump would refuse to endorse
him.

Joining us now, Maria Teresa Kumar, President and CEO of Voto Latino and host of
"CHANGING AMERICA" on shift by Msnbc.

Also with us, Jonathan Allen, co-author of "HRC: State Secrets and the Rebirth
of Hillary Clinton".

Ad back with us, Joy Reid. Joy Reid, who were those guys? Who were those people
at that meeting? I have never seen Pastor Darrell Scott before --

REID: Yes --

O`DONNELL: So --

REID: Yes. You are not familiar with the good right Reverend Darrell Scott.

O`DONNELL: No.

REID: So -- So, when I heard -- first heard about this meeting that is going to
take place, I immediately called friends of mine in Cleveland, because Pastor
Darrell Scott has a church in Cleveland Heights, Ohio, not Cleveland.

O`DONNELL: Uh-huh.

REID: And, no one could tell me who he was. They had not heard of him. The folks
I talked to were very politically involved. Did not know him. But, apparently,
he has a church in Cleveland Heights. He is a friend of Donald Trump for quite a
few years.

He actually became friends with Donald Trump`s business manager about five years
ago. They formed a bond. He, himself, is an endorser of Donald Trump. Now, the
rest of the pastors that he invited to that meeting, and if you go back and look
at what you just showed --

O`DONNELL: So, he was kind of the leader of getting people there?

REID: He can be.

O`DONNELL: OK.

REID: Most of the people who came to the meeting had never met Donald Trump
before.

O`DONNELL: Uh-huh.

REID: He was, actually, bringing together pastors he knew to try to get them
interested in the Trump campaign. He is an endorser. Now, I think what was more
important in that video that you have just showed was the woman off to his left.
I guess, stage left, which is Omarosa Manigault, who you can actually see the
video right there. Omarosa.

(LAUGHING)

O`DONNELL: Who he met on a reality T.V. show.

REID: Who, actually, is herself a pastor.

O`DONNELL: Ah!

REID: Omarosa since being on "The Apprentice" has become a minister.

O`DONNELL: The many roles.

REID: So, she is actually one of the pastors who was at the event. And, the
interesting thing for Donald Trump is will Omarosa who is well-known, of course,
to America through "The Apprentice" -- will she endorse Donald Trump, because
she would, actually be the highest profile endorser in that group, not Pastor
Scott, who is not well-known.

O`DONNELL: Well, Maria Teresa, she was on this network -- gee, I think -- It was
on one of the weekend shows in the morning, months ago, saying, no, she would
not support him, that she was a democrat. And, so, there is there is video of
that somewhere in the tank here at MSNBC. But, so, here is Donald Trump in his
big appeal to broaden his base today.

MARIA TERESA KUMAR, VOTO LATINO PRESIDENT: So, I think --

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DONALD TRUMP, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We have many, many endorsements that
came out of the meeting. I do not think we have backlash. I saw love in that
room. I see love everywhere I go.

OMAROSA MANIGAULT, FORMER "THE APPRENTICE" CONTESTANT: Are you going to change
your tone going forward?

TRUMP: Well, you know, the tone has taken me to first position in every single
poll, including state and including national polls. The beautiful thing about
the meeting is they really did not ask me to change the tone. I think they want
to see victory.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: Maria Teresa, can you imagine a meeting like that where they would
not ask him to change the tone?

KUMAR: Not at all. But, what I find really interesting is that it is the old
world way of doing politicking with the new world of politicking coming to the
head, right? So, even ten years ago, it would be very easy that he could have
met with African-American pastors. No one would have known the better.

And, all of a sudden slowly creeping doing the politics behind closed doors and
actually gotten a few endorsements. Now, social media, got a wind of it. In less
than, you know, 72 hours, all of these pastors, actually, had to stand down and
recognize that, that whatever they said on behalf of Trump was actually going to
hurt them almost immediately overnight. Before there is very rarely to have
political consequences so quickly, but now because of social media, he basically
got -- he basically got stopped on arrival.

O`DONNELL: And, Jonathan Allen, he continues his lying tour about what happened
in New Jersey on 9/11, continued it on Sunday shows this weekend. He will not
loosen his grip on that particular lie.

But, we are now hearing from his supporters out there and his interviews people
are grabbing with him that they just think, "Well, OK. That, you know, that is
his lie but people in Washington are telling worse lies than the lies Donald
Trump tells." So, apparently, they have been worn down to the point where they
are willing to accept lies.

JONATHAN ALLEN, AUTHOR, HRC: Yes, we are going for the lowest common lie
denominator, I do not know. Look, Donald Trump says what he wants. He says what
he thinks will be popular, and the truth be damned. We have seen it time and
again.

And, tonight, it is not just about what would happen or did not happen on new
jersey rooftops after 9/11. He is not backing down at all. And, by the way, I
was on that show with Omarosa. She indeed is a democrat and I believe she
actually worked in the Clinton White House at one time.

O`DONNELL: Yes, yes, that is right. That is right. Yes. And, was it Steve
Kornacki show or was it Melissa Harris-Perry?

ALLEN: It was "Up."

O`DONNELL: It was a Saturday morning show. Yes. We are going to get that tape
and so, we are going to lock her in to that position.

REID: But, at the same, Lawrence -- if I may, there is an interesting sort of
back story that is going on. Within the African-American community, of course,
the pastor sort of world, that world of the church is the centripetal force that
moves the black vote traditionally.

And, you have under the radar, a riff between that part of the traditional black
vote and the Black Lives Matter Organizations, which are much younger and
disconnected from the black church.

So, I think the interesting thing is that Donald Trump, as, you know, wacky as
he is, is sort of exploiting a potential riff between the kind of old school
black preacherody, if want to. Call it that. And, sort of new school, Black
Lives Matter Organization.

Notice, he blamed the Black Lives Matter for that group not endorsing him. He is
trying to exploit something that is actually potentially there, which is a
generational sort of riff between these two parts of the civil rights movement.
So, that is sort of interesting.

But, I would watch to see if Omarosa, who is a democrat, who did work for the
Clinton campaign, does endorse. Because what Donald Trump right now does not
have are black validaters, who are well-known and with respected among black
people, or just well-known period. So, it will be interesting to watch --

O`DONNELL: So, the best he could do is a well-known reality star?

(LAUGHING)

REID: Yes.

KUMAR: No. But, I think that he, actually, has that problem along the lines of
validaters that are women, that are people of -- that are Latinos.

REID: Yes.

KUMAR: That are African-American. The actual base that he needs in order to get
to the White House.

ALLEN: I think what Maria Teresa --

O`DONNELL: Go ahead, Jonathan.

ALLEN: I was going to say I think is what Maria Teresa is saying is the reason
that Donald Trump is going to win an overwhelming share of the African-American
vote, certainly not in a general election, probably not in a primary but I think
what he is trying to do is find a racial or ethnic or any other type of minority
that he can go to and not already have basically poisoned the well, if you will.
Latinos, if you look at Muslims in this country, you know, you go through the
groups and pretty soon he is alienated a lot of them.

REID: Yes. You know, republican primary that is not about black and Latino
voters, because there really are not any in the republican primary. That is
about white suburban voters, who want permission to go with Donald Trump. That
is what he is trying to give them.

O`DONNELL: All right, quick break. When we come back, Chris Christie has finally
found something he disagrees with Donald Trump about, we will be right back.

(MUSIC PLAYING)

O`DONNELL: Chris Christie has finally taken on one of the lies of Donald Trump.
Chris Christie is calling out Trump for lying about having seen thousands and
thousands of people celebrating in New Jersey on 9/11. Here is what Christie
said about that today.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CHRIS CHRISTIE, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: It did not happen. And, the fact is
that, you know, people can say anything, but the facts are the facts. And, that
did not happen in New Jersey that day. It has not happened sense.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: It took Chris Christie quite a while to get up his courage to say
that. His first reaction to Trump`s lie was this.

"I do not remember that and so it is not something that was a part of my
recollection. I think if it had happened, I would remember it, but, you know,
there could be things I forget, too."

And, Jonathan Allen, maybe it is because he got a big endorsement in New
Hampshire today, the newspaper there, endorsing Chris Christie for president.

ALLEN: They were saying that Chris Christie surge right now.

O`DONNELL: Yes.

(LAUGHING)

ALLEN: It might get all of the way up to like, I do not know, 10 percent, 15
percent. Look, Chris Christie is still toward the bottom of the republican
field. And, the endorsement from the New Hampshire paper is not going to change
that.

O`DONNELL: Let us take a look at the poll -- the latest poll in New Hampshire,
which shows Chris Christie way down there at 4 percent. Let us get this up on
the screen. He is way down at 4 percent below Jeb Bush.

And, the Manchester Union Leader decides to endorse Chris Christie, which we
should know that since 1980, the Manchester Union Leader has endorsed one person
that became president, that was Ronald Reagan. And, Joy, last time around, 2012,
they endorsed Newt Gingrich.

REID: Come on.

O`DONNELL: No, it gets worse. It gets worse, OK? They endorsed McCain, you know,
who then -- the time before that he did get the nomination. But, in reverse
order, they endorsed Steve Forbes, Pat Buchanan, twice. Two times in a row. In
1988, of course, they endorsed Pete Dupont. And, so, you know, as I mentioned to
Rachel when she was handing off the show to me that they are not afraid of
picking a loser.

REID: They are not afraid -- what? No, really? Rudy Giuliani? I mean Chris
Christie is the Rudy Giuliani of --

O`DONNELL: No. Newt Gingrich last time. Newt Gingrich last time.

REID: Yes. Chris Christie is about 0.0 chance of being the republican nominee
but bully for him that he got an endorsement from the Manchester Union Leader.

O`DONNELL: And, Maria Teresa, the Ted Cruz surge seems as though it might be a
little more real. He is coming up in polls in Iowa and he might be able to pull
that off.

KUMAR: Well, I think he has, basically, been very closely following the lead of
Donald Trump and basically recognizes that his base is whoever Donald Trump`s
base is. And, he is playing that very closely to his vest.

But, I think what is interesting though is with the "Star Ledger" literally
called today the editorial board over New Hampshire and said, have you been
following this guy? Do you actually know what he has done as governor? And, the
guy is kind of shrugged and said, "Actually, we do not." So, that was curious.

(LAUGHING)

O`DONNELL: Yes. They do not need information up there.

KUMAR: No.

O`DONNELL: Joy Reid, Maria Teresa Kumar and Jonathan Allen, thank you all for
joining us tonight. I really appreciate it.

Tonight on Twitter, I asked you to send your guesses, what is in this picture?
What is that? And "L" tweeted, "I helped raise money for one and train a driver
a few years back." She got it right. The answer is coming up.

(MUSIC PLAYING)

O`DONNELL: A 35-year-old Jennifer Markovsky moved to Colorado from Hawaii ten
years ago when her husband Paul was reassigned by the United States Army.
Jennifer accompanied a friend to Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado Springs
on Friday, where she was murdered just for being there.

Jennifer had two children, ages 10 and 6. The friend Jennifer accompanied to
Planned Parenthood was shot and wounded in the hand. Jennifer Markovsky`s
husband, Paul, released this statement tonight.

"I am shocked and deeply saddened by the tragic loss of my wife. She was a very
caring and compassionate person and patient and understanding parent. She was
deeply loved by all who knew her. She was always helping the kids do homework
and reading books with them. We will miss her, her cooking, crafting, and
adventurous spirit. We ask for privacy now as we try to begin the grief and
healing process."

University of Colorado Police Officer Garrett Swasey was one of the first to
arrive on the scene Friday`s shooting and he did the most courageous thing you
could possibly do under the circumstances. He ran toward the shooter, toward the
gunfire. Officer Swasey was shot and killed.

He was a six-year veteran of the university police. He was a Junior National
Couple`s Ice Dancing Champion in the early 1990s. Former U.S. National champion,
Nancy Kerrigan remembers that she skated with Garrett Swasey in Boston when they
were both kids there.

Officer Swasey leaves his wife Rachel, 11-year-old son Elijah and 6-year- old
daughter Faith. He was 44 years old. Officer Swasey`s wife Rachel said this.
"His greatest joys were his family, his church, and his profession. We will
cherish his memory, especially those times he spent tossing the football to his
son and snuggling with his daughter on the couch."

A 29-year-old Ke`Arre Stewart survived the Iraq war, but he could not survive a
visit to planned parenthood. The Iraq war veteran was the father of two girls,
11 years and 6 years old. He was shot on the parking lot, but that did not stop
him. He continued moving into the clinic to warn others before he was shot to
death. Ke`Arre Stewart accompanied his pregnant girlfriend to Planned Parenthood
on Friday.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

KENTANYA CRAION, KE`ARRE STEWART`S GIRLFRIEND: He sounded like an A-K, you could
hear like just gunshots. And, from there the bullets went through the wall. You
could see it. You could smell it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

LEYONTE CHANDLER, KE`ARRE STEWART`S BROTHER: He is the only brother that I had,
and he took that away from me.

O`DONNELL: So, I asked you to guess what this is. On Twitter earlier, I told you
it was -- it is made in Malawi and at least a couple of you got the right
answers. The big winners of tonight`s quiz are next.

O`DONNELL: Tomorrow is giving Tuesday. After all that spending on the Friday
after thanksgiving and today cyber Monday comes giving Tuesday, which is ruled
by the spirit of generosity. It is a day marked globally and dedicated to giving
back. It is a simple idea. Just find a way for your family, your community, your
organization to try to give something more.

MSNBC has decided to get a head start on giving Tuesday right now by officially
launching giving Tuesday on this program with my suggestion about how you can
contribute to giving Tuesday. I asked you to guess what this is earlier tonight.
And, we have a couple of winners.

A few of you -- a couple of you guessed that it is an ambulance. Seal Anne and
Mike Graham are the big winner on our Twitter contest tonight. Here is another
view of that ambulance with the top open.

The patient in distress is placed on that stretcher and then the roof is lowered
over the patient to offer protection from the intense African sun or from the
intense rain during rainy season.

There is a cheaper version of this ambulance that does not have a roof on it.
The ambulance can be hooked to the back of a bicycle but in a lot of cases, it
is simply pulled by someone on foot.

Now, we are lucky enough to live in a country where if we ever do have to ride
in an ambulance it will be a lot fancier. But, in most parts of Malawi, you
would be lucky if this ambulance showed up to get you.

Most villages do not even have an ambulance like this. But, more of them do now.
Thanks to the K.I.N.D. fund, Kids In Need of Desks, the program that we created
here on this program in partnership with UNICEF five years ago, to build these
desks in Malawi and to deliver them in schools that do not have any desks.

The K.I.N.D. fund did not pay for that ambulance. I do not want you to think
that. But this ambulance is made in one of our factories in Malawi that make
desks for the K.I.N.D. fund, such is the synergy of the marketplace.

Because that factory has a large order from the K.I.N.D. fund to make thousands
of desks, that factory has ordered large amounts of supplies of steel and wood.
That factory is now in an active supply chain that makes it ready to produce
other products, to expand its business, to hire more workers.

Building desks is still the primary business of that factory, but they are now
also capable of filling smaller orders from time to time for ambulances like the
one we showed you and hospital beds made of steel. The steel they have imported
from South Africa primarily to make the desks.

The K.I.N.D. fund is an education program. Our mission is to get desks in the
schools that otherwise would never have desks. And, also to pay for the
continuing education of girls in Malawi where girl`s graduation rate from high
school is a fraction of the boys` graduation rate.

But, before the K.I.N.D. fund creates a desk it creates a job. Many jobs. Making
those desks. When we started the K.I.N.D. fund five years ago, Motion hired a
handful of workers to make desks in the small space behind his hardware store in
Lilongwe, the capital city of Malawi.

Motion is now making those desks in a large factory out on the edge of town and
he plans to move to an even bigger factory that he is building right now. Steve
Musali is one of the factory workers whose lives have been changed. Thanks to
your generosity to the K.I.N.D. Fund.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

STEVE MUSALI, FACTORY WORKER: (UNINTELLIGIBLE)

O`DONNELL (voice-over): Steve dropped out of high school and his youngest
sister, who is still in school, thanks to his ability to pay her high school
tuition fees.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL (on camera): Public high school is not free in Malawi. And, if the
family can manage to pay tuition for a student, that is more likely to be one of
the boys in the family, who gets that support than one of the girls. Steve told
me his life changed when he got this job.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

STEVE MUSALI, FACTORY WORKER: (UNINTELLIGIBLE)

O`DONNELL (voice-over): He said before he got the job, he could not afford to
stay in a house. And, food was, as he put it, a bit of a problem. Now he says,
"I can stay in a respectable house and I can afford to feed my family."

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL (on camera): Steve lights up when he talks about his 2-year-old son,
Stanley.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

STEVE MUSALI, FACTORY WORKER: (UNINTELLIGIBLE)

O`DONNELL (voice-over): He said that he is proud to know that one day Stanley
will be sitting at a desk that he made. Steve said Stanley will be able to tell
his classmates, quote, "This is my father`s work."

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL (on camera): You can help Steve Musali continue that work by
contributing to the K.I.N.D. Fund at Lastworddesks.MSNBC.com. You can contribute
a desk or girls` tuition in the name of someone on your Christmas gift list.
That is someone who has everything.

And, if you cannot afford to contribute this year, perhaps you can help us by
tweeting about the K.I.N.D. Fund or mentioning it on Facebook. I have never seen
more pure joy and excitement than when these desks that you have contributed
arrived at the school.

Imagine the excitement for Steve Musali, a few years from now when he walks his
son, Stanley, to school for the first time. Imagine Steve`s pride when he
watches Stanley sit at that school desk for the first time.

Those magical moments will all have been made possible by your continuing
generosity to the K.I.N.D. Fund. Imagine the day that little Stanley Musali sits
at his desk for the first time. The first day of school is going to be exciting
enough for Stanley.

But, he is going to experience something else, something very special that we
hope all children can feel about their parents. As Stanley studies his new desk,
feels it for the first time, imagine how proud he will be when he turns to the
kids beside him and says, this is my father`s work.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 113001cb.474

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SHOW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript

                       Copyright 2015 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              Copyright 2015 MSNBC


                               8 of 24 DOCUMENTS


                                     MSNBC

                            December 1, 2015 Tuesday

                           SHOW: HARDBALL 5:00 PM EST

What Can the GOP do About Trump?

BYLINE: Chris Matthews, Michael Steele, Jonathan Capehart, David Corn

GUESTS: Robert Costa, Susan Page, Barbara Boxer, Rick Santorum, Molly Ball

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 8851  words



HIGHLIGHT: GOP presidential candidates and the Republican Party donors and
establishment struggle to come up with a strategy to defeat Donald Trump.


CHRIS MATTHEWS, HOST: Donald Trump leads, and we`re not in summer anymore.

Let`s play HARDBALL.

Good evening. I`m Chris Matthews in Washington.

Well, a good while back, I said that if Donald Trump was still in this
presidential fight come November, why assume he won`t be in the fight come
February, when we have the Iowa caucuses and the New Hampshire primary starting
up the whole primary season?

Well, it`s now December -- December 1st, in fact -- and Donald Trump is still
right where he`s been, on top. We`re just two months away, of course, from the
Iowa caucuses, the first time Republicans will cast ballots in a presidential
contest, and Trump remains in the lead there in Iowa, with Ted Cruz, of course,
close behind. But Trump has a bigger lead in New Hampshire. Marco Rubio and Ben
Carson are distant runner-ups there.

Trump also dominates national polls. As Trump said at a rally last night, if
anyone wants to win the nomination of the Republican Party, they`ve got to come
through him.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Christie hasn`t hit me yet. He will.
He has to. He has no choice! He`s at 2 or 3! He`s got to -- he`s going to hit
me, at some point. Rubio`s got to hit me. Hey, there`s only one way you get to
the top, and it`s all through Trump, let`s face it. Even, I think, Cruz is going
to have to hit me. It`ll be a sad day, but we will hit back, I promise. I
promise.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: He says with resignation.

(LAUGHTER)

MATTHEWS: Anyway, Robert Costa`s national political reporter for "The Washington
Post," and one of the best out there. Susan Page is, of course, a great one,
Washington bureau chief for "USA Today." She writes the front page story. And
Michael Steele is a former chairman of the National Republican Committee. He`s
now an MSNBC political analyst, and doesn`t actually have to write anything he
doesn`t want to.

(LAUGHTER)

MATTHEWS: You don`t have to hit those deadlines.

Let me start with you, Michael, and your party, the Republican Party. Why will
February be different than December now? I mean, everybody says something`s
going to change, there`s going to be some reality cutting into -- we`re in
reality, I would argue. Your thoughts.

MICHAEL STEELE, FMR. RNC CHAIR, MSNBC POLITICAL ANALYST: I don`t see it
changing. And I have two questions to ask anybody who is thinking about this
process. So who takes out Donald Trump, and when do they do it?

MATTHEWS: Take his head off.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: Can you -- do you have to go through him physically (ph), or can you
sneak around, like Cruz seems to be doing, by eating the remains, basically, of
Dr. Carson?

STEELE: Yes. Cruz has done that. Christie is about to do that.

MATTHEWS: Go around him.

STEELE: Is going to try to go around him. And I don`t know how successful
they`ll be. As the polls are showing -- Cruz has been out there. He`s getting
close, but not consistently. In Iowa...

MATTHEWS: Is that fight coming? Is Trump going to go after...

STEELE: Oh, I...

MATTHEWS: Robert, is Trump going to go after Cruz and say, You can`t go sneaking
around me eating the remains -- I hate to be too graphic here, but the remains
of Dr. Carson among the evangelicals?

ROBERT COSTA, "WASHINGTON POST": Cruz thinks he can have sidestepped Trump, run
up the side in Iowa, and try to have a surprise victory there. But look, the
donor class in the Republican Party, the biggest leaders in the party -- they`re
not putting the money in to go after Trump. There`s no anti-Trump effort at this
moment...

MATTHEWS: Well, who are the Koch brothers for?

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: Where`s Sheldon Adelson?

COSTA: They`re sitting on the sidelines. The only people who are in the fight
now against Trump -- Kasich`s super-PAC and the Club for Growth. They haven`t
landed a punch. So if you`re going to beat Trump, you have to go at Trump...

MATTHEWS: But why raise a trillion dollars if you`re not going to spend it? Why
are the Koch brothers...

(CROSSTALK)

COSTA: ... don`t want to spend that money. Bush has $100 million sitting in
their super-PAC, they don`t want to spend it. And the Kochs, they just don`t
want that fight.

MATTHEWS: Well...

SUSAN PAGE, "USA TODAY": Well, it`s also not clear that if you take on Trump, it
does you any good, right?

STEELE: Exactly.

PAGE: First of all, Trump hits you back, as he said in your lead-in.

MATTHEWS: Yes.

PAGE: And secondly, maybe you just make the point that the establishment is
against Trump. That helps him with the voters who are drawn to him.

STEELE: And they`ve looked and they`ve seen Bush spend $25 million out of his --
now, it wasn`t all directed at Trump, but he spent the money and he really
didn`t move.

MATTHEWS: There`s nothing there.

STEELE: The base...

(CROSSTALK)

STEELE: But it`s less about Bush and it`s so much more about the base and where
they are right now.

MATTHEWS: Do you know any Bush enthusiasts in your party?

STEELE: No.

MATTHEWS: Do you know any reporting?

PAGE: I think...

MATTHEWS: Have you met one?

PAGE: I think -- I don`t even -- people don`t even mention Bush anymore,
frankly, right?

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: I mean, I think this is a profound reality.

(CROSSTALK)

PAGE: ... part of the -- part of the conversation.

COSTA: I`ve seen veterans in New Hampshire go to Bush, older voters in New
Hampshire. Bush has some support in South Carolina, a military state. He has
lingering support. The best thing that could happen to Bush is...

MATTHEWS: Lingering support?

COSTA: Support on the sides, not enthusiastic at the moment.

MATTHEWS: Yes (INAUDIBLE) Anyway, Chris Christie, the governor of New Jersey,
participated in a New Hampshire roundtable today discussing drug addiction.
That`s very smart of him. It`s a big issue up there. When a reporter asked about
Donald Trump, Christie showed some "atty-tude." That`s how you say it in south
Jersey. Let`s watch.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

QUESTION: Donald Trump said you need to be careful what you say. What`s your
response to him?

GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE (R-NJ), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I really don`t have a
response, you know? We`re sitting here -- we`re sitting here, talking about some
really important issues of recovery and addiction that are ravaging families
across the country.

And you all, quite frankly, should be ashamed of yourselves. All you do is ask
about Donald Trump, every place I go. And then I have the press complain to me,
Why do you think Trump`s doing so well? Well, hell, man, if you`re talking about
him 24 hours a day, anybody can do well. Whatever Donald Trump has said for the
day today is, quite frankly, nothing that I have any interest in responding to.
I`m running for president.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: Isn`t it nice to be talked down to morally by Chris Christie?

(LAUGHTER)

MATTHEWS: Does he think that`s going to win him support, talk down to us
morally? I`d stay off that channel, if I were him.

STEELE: Well...

MATTHEWS: And by the way, wasn`t this the tactic of bullying that he used to get
those Democratic mayors behind him when he ran for reelection?

STEELE: Well...

MATTHEWS: And isn`t that the bridge problem right there?

STEELE: That`s not -- if he were talking to a voter, that would be a different
conversation, and you`re probably right.

MATTHEWS: Yes.

STEELE: But talking to the press, the base kind of looks at that and they go,
yes, that`s right, that`s the right "atty-tude" to have.

COSTA: Complicated...

(LAUGHTER)

MATTHEWS: You said it right, didn`t you. You got the Philly accent, too.

COSTA: I mean, Trump has a lot of properties in New Jersey. Christie and Trump
were cozy in 2010, 2012, 2014, when Christie was doing the RGA work. These are
guys who have tried to avoid a fight. You see Christie`s still trying to stay on
the ropes, not get in against Trump.

MATTHEWS: So what`s he doing with this, I don`t want to talk about him, he`s
below me, you press people should...

PAGE: Because he`s got a...

MATTHEWS: ... be ashamed of covering him because he`s the only guy saying
anything? Go ahead.

PAGE: Christie`s got a plan, right? You know, he`s now got the nomination -- the
endorsement of "The Union Leader." He...

MATTHEWS: What`s been their record?

PAGE: And their record -- well...

MATTHEWS: Two out of nine.

PAGE: ... in 2008 -- yes. Right.

MATTHEWS: Two out of nine.

PAGE: John McCain -- they`ve got one...

MATTHEWS: Two out of nine have won the New Hampshire primary, much less anything
else. Go ahead.

PAGE: All right. But he -- that -- the endorsement still does him some good in
New Hampshire.

MATTHEWS: He`s number seven up there.

PAGE: And -- right. I understand that.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: ... the rah-rah that he`s trying to create here.

PAGE: But he`s -- this issue of addiction, that`s been good for him. I think the
Paris attacks are good for him because he talks tough. I mean, he looks
confident on that. So I think he`s at least somebody worth watching. It`s not...

MATTHEWS: What is he shlumping down in his chair there for? Wasn`t that an odd
sort of picture of him there, shlumping down behind the microphone? Wasn`t that
weird for him? He`s (INAUDIBLE) dramatize himself more.

STEELE: He was just relaxed.

COSTA: You see him in the town halls...

STEELE: Very (INAUDIBLE)

COSTA: ... I mean, in terms of being a candid talent, Christie has it. But
you`re right, he`s not...

MATTHEWS: What`s with the white shirts? That`s their uniform.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: Why does he always wear white shirts?

PAGE: What he wears...

STEELE: He`s a former prosecutor. That`s -- that`s the uniform.

MATTHEWS: And he always walks around with his coat off, showing just whiteness!

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: I`m just amused by it.

(CROSSTALK)

COSTA: ... Lamar Alexander...

MATTHEWS: I mean, what is the...

(CROSSTALK)

COSTA: ... Romney plaid? What do you want?

PAGE: I don`t think that`s his biggest problem.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: I think we`re going to get snow blind from...

PAGE: His biggest problem is bridgegate`s not a good...

MATTHEWS: Anyway, "The Hill" newspaper, which covers Capitol Hill, reports that
many Republican donors say they could sit the election out if Trump gets the
nomination. All of a sudden, the guy that couldn`t ever last until November,
they`re worried about him getting the nomination.

GOP establishment donors have confided to "The Hill" that for the first time in
recent memory, they find themselves contemplating not supporting a Republican
nominee for president. Maybe their wives will push them to Hillary.

Meanwhile, the Republican establishment has reacted to Trump`s continued lead
these past few weeks with a mix of denial, fear and -- here`s a great word --
loathing.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

GOV. JOHN KASICH (R-OH), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: He`s not going to be the
nominee, Martha, because at the end -- look, he may have 20 percent of the vote,
but he`s got 80 percent of Republicans who don`t support him.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You say he won`t get the nomination?

KASICH: No.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What if he does? Will you support him?

KASICH: I -- I don`t -- he`s not going to.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But...

KASICH: So you know, we`re not even going to go there.

KARL ROVE, FMR. BUSH SR. ADVISER: He`s got a high floor and a low ceiling. I`m
not certain that he`s going to be able to consolidate much out of that 25, 28,
30 percent of the vote that he appears to have today.

I still think he`s unlikely to win it. I don`t want to say the chances are 0 or
5 percent, but I think it`s unlikely he wins the nomination.

BILL KRISTOL, "WEEKLY STANDARD": I regretted lumping Carson with Trump. I said
neither was qualified to be president about two months ago. I think Trump is, in
my -- I mean, I`ve really come to kind of loathe Donald Trump.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: Well, that`s sweet. By the way, did you ask Karl Rove who won Ohio
last election?

(LAUGHTER)

MATTHEWS: Isn`t he still running around with Megyn Kelly, arguing that Ohio went
Republican?

PAGE: What was interesting about...

MATTHEWS: I mean, I mean it. If you`re wrong after the election, you couldn`t be
right before it!

(LAUGHTER)

PAGE: You know what was interesting about what he said -- he had previously said
-- in the summer, he said, Donald Trump will not be the nominee, period. He`s
not saying that anymore. He`s saying it is unlikely that he`s the nominee.
That`s a real change.

MATTHEWS: I think it`s -- the plausibility factor has gone way up on this guy. I
mean, if you think -- I mean, maybe -- I don`t ask anybody here to agree with
me. I think there are three candidates clearly in the running now. I think
Rubio`s definitely in the running. I think Cruz because the South might go to
him. I think -- I think if Donald Trump is still in this fight when we go south
in March, I think he`s going to be there. And of course, Cruz -- Cruz, Rubio and
Trump.

But it now has come to be a true thinking. I think the three have a chance. All
three have a chance. Well, you`re the Republican.

STEELE: Yes, no, I think they do.

MATTHEWS: All three.

STEELE: I think they do, but I think Trump has more of a chance because the
other two...

MATTHEWS: OK. He`s more plausible.

STEELE: The other two haven`t had a way...

MATTHEWS: That`s changed.

STEELE: ... found a way to take him out. So this is the deal. If Trump...

MATTHEWS: Is he the favorite now?

STEELE: Who, Trump?

MATTHEWS: Yes.

STEELE: Yes. He is the favorite.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: Michael Steele says Trump`s the favorite.

STEELE: He is the putative front-runner for the GOP nomination, period, end of
sentence.

MATTHEWS: Wow!

STEELE: Go to the next paragraph.

MATTHEWS: So what is that changing among the big -- the big shots in your party?

STEELE: So some folks -- so folks in the establishment need to get their -- you
know, their act together and figure out those two questions. Who takes him out?
And when do they do it? And they`ve got eight weeks left.

(CROSSTALK)

STEELE: ... to February...

MATTHEWS: I`m sorry.

STEELE: ... with that wind in his sails, how do you stop him in the South?
Alabama, Tennessee...

MATTHEWS: They`re to love...

COSTA: What`s going to stop Trump?

STEELE: What`s going to stop Trump?

COSTA: What issue is going to stop Trump...

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: We`ve seen these numbers. And I`m not knocking anybody. The white
voter, Republican voter who hasn`t gone to college, hasn`t had the break of
going to college, tends to be a very big Trump voter, in terms of just numbers.
I`m not making the elitist attitude. It`s just a fact. Down South, they`re going
to find some people down there that meet that description and they`re going to
like him.

By the way, Dick Nixon once told Pat Buchanan, my friend -- I dare say that --
that whenever you hear about a "Stop X" movement, bet on X.

(LAUGHTER)

MATTHEWS: And if we have a "Stop Trump" movement, bet on Trump.

PAGE: You know where -- you know where the money -- you know, the money -- the
establishment money that wouldn`t go to Trump if he`s the nominee, that will go
to Senate races...

MATTHEWS: Oh!

PAGE: ... because if Trump is the nominee...

MATTHEWS: To hold the Senate.

STEELE: You got to hold the Senate.

PAGE: You got to hold the Senate. And holding the Senate -- you look -- of the
-- I think of the eight most competitive Senate races, seven are in presidential
swing states. That means that...

MATTHEWS: Ohio, Pennsylvania, Colorado...

PAGE: I can`t actually name them all, but yes.

MATTHEWS: They`re all right. New Hampshire, that`s four.

PAGE: Yes. So there`s a big risk for Republicans that Trump runs, Trump gets the
nomination, they don`t think he can win the presidency, he could deliver the
Senate.

MATTHEWS: I forgot Nevada. These are all close ones.

COSTA: Think about super-Tuesday. March 1st, you got all these Southern
primaries. The most telling moment I`ve had in this campaign is driving from
Mobile, Alabama, through Mississippi to the Florida panhandle. They all have
Trump signs on their lawns.

MATTHEWS: Here`s a theory I have, that the Republican Party isn`t anymore
warlike than the Democratic Party when it comes to actual troop movements. You
know, they talk tough about the Iranian deal -- No, no, no, we don`t like these
people -- but the idea of putting a couple hundred thousand or even 50,000
troops somewhere and have a real war is almost a no-no now.

Look at this. Here`s Ted Cruz. He opened up an interesting line of attack
against Marco Rubio this week. He said Rubio is too much for interventions. Cruz
also called him out by name. He said he`s a neocon.

Here`s what Cruz said to Bloomberg. "Senator Rubio emphatically supported
Hillary Clinton in toppling Moammar Gadhafi in Libya. I think that made no
sense. If you look at President Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton, and for that
matter, some of the more aggressive Washington neocons, they have consistently
misperceived the threat of radical Islamic terrorism and have advocated military
adventurism that has had the effect of benefiting radical Islamic terrorists."

There you have a very hard right, probably the most hard right candidate in a
long time saying, We are not a hawk party. Robert, that`s a dramatic statement.

COSTA: Cruz has been trying for years to balance between the McCain wing of the
party and the Rand Paul wing, and he thinks...

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: ... Rand Paul now?

COSTA: He is because he sees Paul`s not picking up any momentum.

MATTHEWS: So there`s an opening there.

COSTA: There`s an opening.

MATTHEWS: And there`s too many guys on the -- on the -- who are pushing the hawk
side. Everybody wants to be a hawk. Christie`s a hawk. Kasich`s a hawk.

PAGE: Because they want to go after Obama, right? They want to say, I`m not
going to be like Obama. He`s been too reluctant to push -- use U.S. military
force abroad. And that pushes you toward a position that gets you closer to a
George W. Bush.

MATTHEWS: Any chance the Republicans will run somebody who`s to the dovish side
of Hillary Clinton? In other words, Trump or Cruz?

STEELE: It`s a real possibility. And if you detach the name from that quote and
just run that quote, who does that sound like, you know? And that`s -- that`s --
that`s where...

MATTHEWS: Who`s it sound like to you?

STEELE: It sounds like someone from the center left, I mean, in terms of...

(CROSSTALK)

PAGE: ... Sanders -- It sounds like...

STEELE: It sounds like...

MATTHEWS: Where I live.

STEELE: Yes.

MATTHEWS: Anyway, President Obama`s in Paris today with over 100 other world
leaders trying to confront the crisis of climate change. Back home, the
Republican candidates seem to agree he shouldn`t have even made the trip. Let`s
listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JEB BUSH (R-FL), FMR. GOV., PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I`d be uncertain whether I
would attend a meeting like that that -- where it seems like the movement is
towards policies that will hurt our economy.

CHRISTIE: Pundits are always changing, and we cannot say -- we cannot say that
our activity doesn`t contribute to changing the climate. What I`m saying is,
it`s not a crisis. The climate`s been changing forever, and it will always
change.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What scientists are you relying on to say it`s not a crisis?

CHRISTIE: That`s my feeling. I didn`t say I was relying on any scientists. I
don`t see evidence -- I don`t see evidence that it`s a crisis.

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We have a president over there worried
about climate change instead of worrying about nuclear weapons coming into the
middle of our cities, OK? We are being run by stupid people. We do have weather
that changes. You have storms and you have tornadoes and you have hurricanes.
And you had them always.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: Is the Republican Party against concern about climate change, Michael?
I mean, that seems to be the line. We`re not concerned.

STEELE: They...

MATTHEWS: We`re more concerned about other things.

STEELE: I think -- I think Christie sort of sums up where the center of the
party tends to be on this issue, and that is it`s not as big a crisis as
everyone claims it is.

MATTHEWS: OK. Susan, do you read it that way?

PAGE: Interesting what President Obama said about this this morning in Paris,
when he got a question about it at his news conference. He said, basically,
they`re just posturing. One of them gets elected president, they`re going to see
things my way when it comes to climate change.

MATTHEWS: Wow. That`s useful for the voter (INAUDIBLE) one thing during the
campaign and have something to face them later.

COSTA: Most strategists for these Republican campaigns tell me they never want
to bring up climate change. Everyone -- it`s only the press who brings up
climate change. They don`t want to bring it up on their own.

MATTHEWS: Tough. That`s our job, bring up, you know, inconvenient truths, as Al
Gore would say.

Anyway, Robert Costa, as always, brilliant. Thank you, Susan, as always. And
Michael, thanks for the inside and outside game (ph).

Coming up -- with two months to go before Iowa, is there going to be a debate on
the Democratic side, a real debate about national security and the power of Wall
Street and the things that matter to the progressive left?

Thirteen of the fourteen women Democrats in the United States Senate are backing
Hillary Clinton, as of yesterday, and we`re going to hear from one of them in a
minute.

Plus, Republican presidential candidate Rick Santorum is here to talk about his
campaign and what, if anything, his party can do to stop Donald Trump.

And Ted Cruz goes on a bender about contraception. You`ve got to hear this one
to believe it. And Donald Trump talks about a $5 million blackmail plan to
appear in the next debate. He won`t come without the money. Cruz and Trump share
the wheel of the clown car tonight.

Finally, "Let Me Finish" with the strange, unknown world of United States
Senator Ted Cruz.

And this is HARDBALL, the place for politics.

MATTHEWS: Some bipartisanship in Washington today on Capitol Hill. House and
Senate negotiators announced an agreement on a five-year transportation bill
that will increase spending for highways, bridges and mass transit. The bill
will also renew the Export-Import Bank. A vote`s expected in the coming days, as
lawmakers face a Friday deadline.

And we`ll be right back.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. JEANNE SHAHEEN (D), NEW HAMPSHIRE: I can tell you that Hillary is going to
win the New Hampshire primary!

(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I can tell you this. Hillary Clinton is going to win Iowa!

(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)

SEN. BARBARA MIKULSKI (D), MARYLAND: And I will be working my earrings off to
elect Hillary. How about you?

(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)

SEN. PATTY MURRAY (D), WASHINGTON: Just like all of us, she still puts her
pantsuits on one leg at a time.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I just have one question. Are you ready for Hillary?

(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)

HILLARY CLINTON (D-NY), FMR. SEC. OF STATE, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Well, if
you`re ready for me, I`m ready for you!

(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: God, she looks great there.

Welcome back to HARDBALL. That was an event last night here in Washington which
turned into a rally for former secretary of state Hillary Clinton. Thirteen of
the fourteen Democratic women in the U.S. Senate officially threw their support
behind her, behind their former Senate colleague and now their party`s 2016
front-runner.

But even though Hillary Clinton leads big in the polls, of course, the
nomination is not in the bag yet, certainly. Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders is
still mounting an aggressive challenge to Clinton and maintains that he`s the
real progressive when it comes to standing up to Wall Street and opposing
military action abroad.

Joining me right now is one of Bernie Sanders` Senate colleagues who is backing
Senator Hillary Clinton. Barbara Boxer is a senator from California. She`s
retiring in 2017, at the end of her fourth term in the United States Senate.

Barbara Boxer, Senator, it`s so great to have you on. You are a hero. You win.
You`re a liberal. You don`t change. You`re a progressive. You don`t bring in
your sails. You sail full force, and you win again and again and again, so --
and again, and one more again there.

Let me ask you, what is the argument, if you can discern it, that separates
Hillary Clinton from Bernie Sanders? Is it important?

SEN. BARBARA BOXER (D), CALIFORNIA: Well, you have three people running for the
Democratic nomination.

And I think Hillary`s the standout. I don`t think you can look at anybody else
who brings all that experience as a first lady, as a private lawyer,
representing the Children`s Defense Fund, as a United States senator who went
down to Ground Zero and fought for those first-responders, as a secretary of
state who understands how to use soft power and hard power.

She`s just a unique person for this moment. And so it`s nothing negative about
anybody else. And I think it`s healthy to have a primary. I really do think it
is. And everybody`s ideas, I think, when Hillary eventually wins, will be melded
into her platform.

I believe that. Bernie`s a great fighter for the middle class. He`s terrific.
He`s passionate, and I think that he`s going to make Hillary a better candidate.

MATTHEWS: What about Hillary Clinton as a -- in terms of her foreign policy
instincts? Do you -- when you look at her record going back to the Iraq War and
going back all through her role as secretary of state and U.S. senator, do you
see her as more hawkish than most Democrats or somewhere in the middle, among
Democrats?

BOXER: I really -- I really don`t -- yes, I hear you.

I don`t think you can call her hawkish. I do think that she will take each
individual case and look at it and come out with some strategy. Sometimes, it`s
going to be using the threat of force. Sometimes, it won`t be. It will be
doubling down on diplomacy. I think she showed her mettle when the decision was
made to go after Osama bin Laden and she was in that room.

I think that she would look at each particular situation with that clear set of
eyes that she has. But I will say, I didn`t agree with her on the Iraq War. I
was one of 23, that`s it, in the Senate who didn`t agree with her. And she has
since said those magic words, "I was wrong," and I give her tremendous credit
for that.

A lot of people, like George W. Bush, will never say those words.

MATTHEWS: Yes, I get it. Well, maybe that`s family loyalty. I don`t know what
that is. Maybe it`s stupidity.

BOXER: Whatever it is.

MATTHEWS: Let me ask you about this stuff. And I know you`re a progressive and
you follow all these issues, so I`m -- this is not going in the weeds. This is
important stuff.

BOXER: Yes.

MATTHEWS: The Brady Bill, it seems that Bernie Sanders is not a supporter, like
most of us, of gun safety rules. He is a -- he holds back on it, he says,
because of his more conservative rural state. What do you make of that?

BOXER: Yes. I think that`s a clear difference. And he talks about how, if we`re
angry, we`re not going to get anywhere. I don`t quite get it, because he`s angry
about a lot of things.

MATTHEWS: That`s true.

BOXER: But I think that Hillary has come forward very clearly. She represents
the vast majority of people in saying we need those universal background checks.
We need safety features on guns, and she said yesterday -- by the way, that clip
was so exciting for me to relive what happened yesterday with that wonderful
rally that we did have for her.

She basically is very, very clear and says, look, if you`re a terror - - if
you`re a suspected terrorist on the no-fly list, you shouldn`t be able to buy a
weapon. These are very commonsense measures. And Bernie has a hard time with
them because he does come from a state that has very few restrictions, Vermont.

MATTHEWS: Well, Senator Sanders has also attacked the former secretary of state
for her ties to Wall Street. Let`s hear him and see what you think of this
charge.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Why, over her political
career, has Wall Street been a major, the major campaign contributor to Hillary
Clinton? Now, maybe they`re dumb and they don`t know what they`re going to get,
but I don`t think so.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: You know, I`m not a politician, Senator, but I always wonder why -- I
have thought about this -- why didn`t Secretary Clinton just say, I represented
Wall Street for six years in the U.S. Senate, eight years; that`s part of my
constituency; you may not like rich people, fine, but there`s a lot good people
that work on Wall Street; a lot of them are good Democrats and progressives on
most issues; why shouldn`t I take their money?

I would have said it. Instead, she said it had something to do with 9/11. I
didn`t buy that. Your thoughts?

BOXER: Well, I think she has said in the past that she, of course, represented
in New York.

But it may surprise your viewers and you to know that I worked on Wall Street. I
had an economics degree straight out of college. It was very difficult as a
woman to work on Wall Street. It`s a whole other story. I won`t go into it. But
what does that mean you work on Wall Street?

There are great people on Wall Street. There are people who I don`t like on Wall
Street.

MATTHEWS: Yes.

BOXER: There are progressives. There are conservatives.

The thing with Bernie is -- and I love him and I work with him and I enjoy him.
I think he`s a terrific senator. He`s passionate. He gets so angry at groups of
people and he paints them with a broad brush.

And I think you`re actually -- you`re absolutely right when you say Hillary
represented New York. It`s like saying, I represent Silicon Valley and I help
them. I do. I help the entertainment industry, you know, the tourist industry.
This is my state. So...

MATTHEWS: Why -- I have got to ask you a question.

BOXER: You know, when you`re president, -- let me just say, when you`re
president, you have got to represent everybody. You have got to bring everybody
into a room.

You don`t want to leave people out of the room. I just negotiated that highway
bill that you talked about.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: Congratulations. We just talked about it.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: I just took a train ride across the country and I love anything on
infrastructure.

BOXER: Yes.

MATTHEWS: Personal question to you, Barbara Boxer. You look great. You`re
youngish.

BOXER: Well, thank you.

MATTHEWS: I think I am too.

Why are you quitting?

BOXER: Young at heart. Young at heart.

MATTHEWS: Why are you quitting?

BOXER: I`m not quitting. I`m going to keep working, but I really want to go to
California, Chris. My heart is there.

So I`m going to work. I`m going to be out there. I`m going to be involved.
You`re going to see probably more of me. But I have so much pep and energy. And
I`m not leaving the scene, but I want to go home. And, you know, I have given at
the office. I have been in elected office for 40 years, when you add it all
up...

MATTHEWS: Yes. It is amazing. It is amazing.

BOXER: ... from local government. And it`s been a privilege and an honor. And I
leave with such a full heart and a happy heart.

And I think it`s time for me to do a few other things. And you will hear about
them, I`m sure.

MATTHEWS: You have done pretty well for a Marin County activist on social
issues.

(LAUGHTER)

MATTHEWS: You`re amazing. And you keep winning elections and you have not bent
to popular opinion. You have simply been Barbara Boxer.

Thank you very much for coming on.

BOXER: It`s a big compliment. Thank you.

MATTHEWS: It`s all true.

Anyway, up next, presidential candidate Rick Santorum will be here with me live
on set.

And this is HARDBALL, the place for politics.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

RICK SANTORUM (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: It is brutal out there. If you`re a
conservative and you`re running for office, it is not a fun thing. The other
side hates what we want to do. And, unfortunately, they don`t separate what we
want to do from us.

This is a beating. It`s a beating, running for president of the United States.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: Welcome back to HARDBALL.

That was, of course, former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum lamenting
challenges on the campaign trail. As I said earlier, it`s just two months now
until the Iowa caucuses are coming February 1.

Four years ago this week, Santorum, who`s with me right now, was trailing in the
polls. He was only down at 4, as you see him there, but he went on to score a
narrow victory. He was the top guy in the Iowa caucuses, coming right back in
one month. Today, he`s polling near the bottom again, tied at 2 percent with New
Jersey Governor Chris Christie and former Governor Mike Huckabee.

Does he have what it takes for another come-from-behind victory in the Hawkeye
State?

Former Senator Rick Santorum is with me here tonight.

Well, you did it once. In fact, you did it in one month. Now you have got two
months to do it.

SANTORUM: Two months.

MATTHEWS: How are you going to do it, from 4 percent, from 2 percent to winning?

SANTORUM: You know, Nate Silver published an article just a few days ago where
he said, look, what`s the hysteria going on here? According to all the polls, 80
percent of the people who are answering these polls are undecided.

And I can tell you, the "Des Moines Register" poll, the most recent one, 88
percent of Iowans are undecided. And that was the case four years ago; 50
percent of the people who voted for me in the Iowa caucuses decided the last
five days.

MATTHEWS: What did you do? You must be going back in your mind and say, what
worked for me last time?

SANTORUM: It`s going out and meeting Iowans, and spending...

MATTHEWS: One on one.

SANTORUM: Spending time.

And, you know, we`re building up our team right now. We have -- we`re ahead of
our schedule of where we were four years ago in signing up caucus captains. And
if you`re sitting at 1 percent or 2 percent in the polls and people are signing
up to be your caucus captain, they`re not going to leave you.

MATTHEWS: Well, the bad news is, as in our business, in my business here, you
succeed at something, people imitate you.

SANTORUM: Right.

MATTHEWS: So, you have got Ted Cruz out there trying to be you. You have got Dr.
Carson, a complete newbie, trying to be you. They`re all trying to do what you
did.

SANTORUM: Yes, but...

MATTHEWS: So there`s three, and Huckabee, all of you competing for the same
conservative cultural vote.

SANTORUM: No, I would agree. They`re all competing in the conservative area.

But none of them are doing the work on the ground that we are. I have already
been to all 99 counties in Iowa. I`m going to continue to work hard.

MATTHEWS: You going to that motorcycle place again? Remember that one?

SANTORUM: The -- no, that wasn`t...

MATTHEWS: Oh, yes, it was. It was some kind of a Harley place we went to. Oh,
yes, I said, what are we doing here? Oh, yes.

SANTORUM: Oh, OK. Well, I don`t remember. Well, I did a few -- I did almost 400
visits in Iowa.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: I always say, this guy will do the smallest...

(CROSSTALK)

SANTORUM: Well, no, we did a lot of small...

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: Well, yesterday, you toured a gun factory in South Carolina...

SANTORUM: Yes.

MATTHEWS: ... and were asked about the killing of a police officer and two
others at a Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado and whether anti- abortion
rhetoric contributed to the shooting.

Here was your response.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SANTORUM: Whether it`s killed on -- a gun or killed in an abortion mill, we
should -- we should find that a tragedy in this country. And the idea that
somehow or another guns are responsible for this is just like saying surgical
equipment is responsible for abortion.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: I don`t know why that doesn`t work with me, but -- because abortions
are always a function of the mother, potential mother, saying, I don`t want to
have this baby. So, she makes the decision, whereas guns are all over the place.
Anybody can get a gun and use it.

(CROSSTALK)

SANTORUM: The point is, you`re ending an innocent human life.

MATTHEWS: OK.

SANTORUM: And the inanimate object is not the person ending the -- you can say,
well, it`s legitimate or not legitimate. I don`t think either should be...

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: But do you think we would have mass shootings if we didn`t have guns?
How would we have them? What would they be?

SANTORUM: We have mass shootings in cities where guns are banned.

MATTHEWS: Yes, but they`re not banned really, because you can get a gun
anywhere.

SANTORUM: Well, you can get a gun anywhere. You can get a gun anywhere in this
country. There are hundreds of millions...

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: We don`t have mass shootings all over Europe.

(CROSSTALK)

SANTORUM: What do you mean? We just had a mass shooting in Paris.

MATTHEWS: These are terrorist attacks, OK, but they`re not locals.

SANTORUM: Well, the bottom line -- we just had two mass shootings.

MATTHEWS: You`re missing -- you`re just challenging...

SANTORUM: I`m not missing anything.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: America is a violent society because of guns.

SANTORUM: America is a violent society because of the culture, because of, I
would argue, the breakdown of the family.

I would argue there`s a lot of reason why people are resorting -- we have a
scourge of mental illness in this country, where for a lot of reasons that we
aren`t dealing with and dealing with responsibly. There`s a lot of issues...

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: What was your reaction -- and I know you care about life, and I --
you`re a true believer in that. What was your reaction when you heard the guy
said no more baby parts?

SANTORUM: It...

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: What did you think?

SANTORUM: Well, it sickened me, but it didn`t sicken me anymore than when the
guy broke into the Family Research Council last week and tried to shoot people.
And he was being motivated by rhetoric on the other side.

People with mental illness grab on to sometimes very, very legitimate arguments
and twist them, because that`s what mental illness does. I think that`s really
the focus here. We shouldn`t be saying, well, you can haven`t a legitimate
debate about these issues, when, in fact, there are legitimate debates about
abortion.

MATTHEWS: Well, six parent -- six children lost a parent in that shooting at the
Planned Parenthood clinic out in Colorado.

"The New York Times" editorial board writes: "Since no amount of dead bodies
seems enough to spur lawmakers to rein in access to guns, let`s focus on the
living, the children gun violence leaves behind. Here`s a thought for lawmakers
who refuse to consider any meaningful legislation to reduce the daily carnage of
gun violence across America. Thanks to your single-minded defense of unfettered
gun rights at the expense of all reason and respect for life, there is an
endless supply of children to be consoled."

SANTORUM: I would say this, that if we had people at that scene who had guns,
that wouldn`t have happened. And, in fact, there are...

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: You mean -- you mean...

SANTORUM: People who could defend themselves.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: ... at a Planned Parenthood clinic should be having arms?

SANTORUM: People have conceal/carry, and carry all over the place.

MATTHEWS: But, seriously, do you really want people in a clinic to have guns?

SANTORUM: Why wouldn`t they have -- why wouldn`t -- I believe people should be
-- should have the right to carry guns wherever they want to carry guns.

MATTHEWS: You mean a doctor and a nurse in an operating room?

SANTORUM: Those are law-abiding people who...

(CROSSTALK)

SANTORUM: ... protect themselves.

MATTHEWS: Why would -- but, seriously, functionally, you say we could prevent
this tragedy if we had people armed.

Do you expect people to be armed in a doctor`s office?

SANTORUM: Where do you think these people commit crimes? They go to places --
these people who are ill, they go to places where they know no one`s going to
have a gun.

If you have a -- I know that sounds somehow foreign to certain ears, but the
fact is, they don`t go to places where people are armed. They go to places where
people aren`t armed.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: I don`t think -- no, I don`t think it sounds foreign.

What I think is weird is, when we grew up with Matt Dillon, they would say, keep
your guns at the city limits. There were always ordinances about guns. It`s not
un-American to think that you have some limits on access...

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: We don`t have guns all the time.

SANTORUM: The problem is, the bad guys -- the bad guys have guns. That`s the
problem. And there`s no way around that...

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: Do you support the NRA all the way when it says they want guns in bars
where people are getting drunk, they should have a gun with them?

SANTORUM: Again...

MATTHEWS: You`re not for that, are you?

SANTORUM: I believe that responsible people carrying weapons actually reduces
crime in America and saves people`s lives.

MATTHEWS: Do responsible people walk into a saloon wearing a gun?

SANTORUM: Many people do. Of course they do. Of course they do. Not everybody
who walks into a saloon, Chris, gets drunk.

MATTHEWS: Well, some do.

(CROSSTALK)

SANTORUM: Well, some do.

MATTHEWS: And those guns are loaded.

Thank you, Rick.

(CROSSTALK)

SANTORUM: Again, you`re not necessarily...

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: You have got to be pro-life about some of this stuff.

(CROSSTALK)

SANTORUM: I am pro-life about it.

MATTHEWS: Carrying -- guns and booze don`t mix.

SANTORUM: Well, again, all I`m saying is...

MATTHEWS: Do they?

SANTORUM: Again, all I`m saying is that the more people that we have responsibly
carrying, the less -- the less violence we are going to have in this country.

MATTHEWS: Moderation in all things.

Rick Santorum, thank you. Good luck. I do root for you personally, although,
politically, we`re not too close.

(LAUGHTER)

MATTHEWS: We will be right back with the HARDBALL roundtable after this.

(NEWSBREAK)

MATTHEWS: Welcome back to HARDBALL.

Sex, violence, blackmail, and birtherism, we`ve got an action-packed clown car
Tuesday right now, led by Ted Cruz and Donald Trump.

Let`s get right to it with the HARDBALL roundtable. Jonathan Capehart is an
opinion writer with "The Washington Post". Molly Ball is a political writer for
"The Atlantic". And David Corn, of course, is Washington bureau chief for
"Mother Jones".

We begin tonight with talk of condoms -- that`s the first time I think I`ve ever
said the word on television -- on the campaign trail. But nonetheless, yes,
condoms.

At a town hall in Iowa, Ted Cruz was asked about his thoughts on making
contraception available to women. He responded with a tirade, if you will, a
tear against the Democratic Party`s, quote, "war on women," which included some
colorful details about his own sex life.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: As I noted, Heidi and I, we have
two little girls. I`m very glad we don`t have 17.

Jiminy Cricket, this is a made up, nonsense example. Last I checked, we don`t
have a rubber shortage in America.

(LAUGHTER)

But -- look, when I was in college, we had a machine in the bathroom, you put 50
cents in, voila!

You`re Hillary Clinton, and you`re trying to think, how do I run? So what do you
do? You go, aha! The condom police.

(LAUGHTER)

I`m going to make up a completely made-up threat and try to scare a bunch of
folks that are not paying a lot of attention into thinking someone`s going to
steal their birth control. What nonsense!

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: OK, he had a point to make, but what a strange way to make it. A
little TMI? Too much information?

DAVID CORN, MOTHER JONES: Yes.

MATTHEWS: "No glove, no love" is his slogan now?

JONATHAN CAPEHART, THE WASHINGTON POST: Jiminy Cricket, Chris!

MATTHEWS: Jiminy Cricket!

CAPEHART: Look, Chris, here`s the thing that I found --

MATTHEWS: Jiminy Cricket was Walt Disney, 40, 50 years ago.

MOLLY BALL, THE ATLANTIC: Sounds like Mitt Romney with Jiminy Cricket.

CAPEHART: I know, right?

BALL: Golly gee darn!

CAPEHART: Here`s the thing I`ll say about what Senator Cruz said. Did you notice
the example he used? Rubbers, condoms, birth control is not just the province of
men! The question was about reproductive health, about the so-called war on
women. You know, it`s -- to make a baby, it requires two people. To have sexual
relations, it requires two people.

MATTHEWS: So was Hillary referring in her comments about pills, about IUDs, what
was she talking about, Molly?

BALL: You know, look, this is an ongoing pet peeve of the Republicans, though --

MATTHEWS: What form of birth control was she referencing?

BALL: I don`t know a form of control that she was referencing. But this pet
peeve the Republicans have, the Democrats are routinely accusing them of trying
to take away all forms of birth control when they were trying to do away with
abortion and certain forms of birth control that they consider to be tantamount
to abortion. And so, this -- that`s not untrue, right? So Republicans are sick
of being accused of this.

MATTHEWS: I understand. So why did he go into detail about his use of condoms
and that whole personal thing?

BALL: To get attention.

CORN: Because his mind is warped. But the thing -- there is a war on some forms
of contraception, as you mentioned, and so, if he just wants to make believe
that IUDs and hormonal therapies, you know, that stop pregnancies once there`s
consummation, if he wants to pretend that`s not part of it, he`s wrong, because
they all support -- most of them, personhood bills that would outlaw a lot of
major forms of contraception.

MATTHEWS: Contraception prevents conception, OK? So it`s after the fact it`s
abortifacient, or whatever the term is. So, clearly, abortion versus
contraception is the debate.

CORN: And IUDs, where they fall.

MATTHEWS: Well, because they fall -- a lot of pro-choice people say 99 percent
of --

CORN: But we can get into the details, but it still is contraception.

MATTHEWS: See how expert we all are?

Anyway, here`s more from Cruz. Here`s what Cruz told Hugh Hewitt`s radio show
yesterday, when the topic turned to the attack on Planned Parenthood that killed
three people out in Colorado Springs.

(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)

CRUZ (via telephone): You know, every time you have some sort of violent crime
or mass killing, you can almost see the media salivating, hoping, hoping
desperately that the murder happens to be a Republican so they can use it to try
to paint their political enemy.

Now, listen, here`s the simple and undeniable fact -- the overwhelming majority
of violent criminals are Democrats. The media doesn`t report that.

(END AUDIO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: You know, David, in an NBA game or college basketball game and they
pretend to be fouled, no one is ever accused a mass killer of being a registered
Republican. It has never been done, I think it`s fair to say.

CORN: And no one`s saying that the guy who blew up, you know, who`s alleged to
have shot up those people in Colorado is a Republican. They`re talking about, he
may have been listened to some conservative talking points, that demonized
Planned Parenthood. And like --

MATTHEWS: I like the way you`re so careful to say "alleged". You can say the
shooter occasionally.

CORN: That`s what you have to say, because we live in a country where people are
innocent until proven guilty. Chris, you believe that. You know that.

MATTHEWS: You believe your lying eyes?

CORN: But Democrats are the ones who commit the most crimes? In anything, most
crimes are probably committed with Democratic neighborhoods with Democrats being
the victims.

MATTHEWS: OK. You know what, I`ve never done head count on partisan labels,
either for street criminals or for mass shooters.

CAPEHART: I think it`s interesting that a person in a party that constantly
complains about being singled out and blamed for this, that, and the other. The
president`s divisive and others are divisive is actually using language that is
actually divisive.

MATTHEWS: He`s also playing victim.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: I`m a victim, too.

Next up, Donald Trump is talking about charging CNN an appearance fee to show up
to the next Republican debate come December 15th. Here he is.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: How about when we do this for CNN? I
won`t do the debate unless they pay me $5 million all of which money goes to the
Wounded Warriors or goes to vets. Truth. Truth.

(APPLAUSE AND CHEERS)

I would love to do it.

If I do it, I have to a feeling I could face repercussions in the polls. Should
I do it or not? I don`t know if I want to take the chance. I don`t know.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: Molly, it`s interesting, he`s out there having this public, you know,
discussion. If I do this little gimmick, will that be bad for my polls? That`s
an odd thing for a politician to admit to, that`s how he judges decisions.

BALL: Well, I mean, he`s not like any other politician, he`s fixated on polls.
It`s like half of his stump speech is polls and the other half is bashing the
media.

MATTHEWS: Any chance he`ll skip the CNN debate in --

BALL: Zero.

Last time, CNN debate, and he said, look, how much money they`re making on these
commercials. I want them to take that money and give it to the Wounded Warriors.

CORN: Why doesn`t he just give the $5 million to the vets and not take it out on
CNN?

MATTHEWS: I think we`re making a point here, pushing a point. It`s obviously a
PR stunt and it works because we`re talking about it.

The roundtable is sticking with us. And up next, these three are going to tell
me something I don`t know.

And this is HARDBALL, the place for politics.

MATTHEWS: All today, MSNBC`s been celebrating Giving Tuesdays, actually a global
day dedicated to giving back, doing something good for the people who need it
most.

Well, here`s a thought about the Dr. Theodore Atlas Foundation out on Staten
Island, New York. It`s run by a very good guy, Teddy Atlas, whose father treated
the people there for over half a century and was very much loved. Well, Teddy`s
(INAUDIBLE) families year round with real needs they can`t meet themselves. It
includes a lot of people who are hit hard and are still feeling the damage of
Hurricane Sandy.

To donate to this great cause, just go to DrAtlasFoundation.com.

And for more information on Giving Tuesday, visit GivingTuesday.MSNBC.com.

We`ll be right back.

MATTHEWS: We`re back with the HARDBALL roundtable.

Molly, tell me something I don`t know.

BALL: Well, you talked earlier about the slow motion establishment freak-out
over Donald Trump who I really hear the Republican establishment freaking out
about right now is Ted Cruz, because they see him being very strategic, they see
his rise and fear Trump is making him look reasonable to a lot of people.

MATTHEWS: Smart.

BALL: And, you know --

MATTHEWS: They think he`d be a terrible nominee.

BALL: They fear him just as much as Trump. The Trump people like him.

MATTHEWS: That`s smart.

CAPEHART: Yes, there are problems with the Affordable Care Act but there are two
nuggets out that show that it is indeed working. The first one is that we are at
the lowest point of uninsured ever, since they`ve been keeping numbers, 10.4
percent uninsured in 2014 and in the early part of 2015, it`s down by 2 percent
--

MATTHEWS: Who are the people that aren`t benefiting? Who is left out in the
cold?

CAPEHART: People who are living in states where Medicaid hasn`t been expanded.
And the second thing is, the 80/20 rule where insurance companies have to
rebate, have to spend 80 percent of their money on care.

MATTHEWS: OK. There`s an op-ed page or an unsigned editorial so I can use it as
commentary, go ahead, because I like it.

CORN: In England, a group of activists put a petition on an official government
Web site that says Donald Trump should be barred from entering England because
of his hateful speech. This is an official process. If it gets passed through
the committee and 10,000 people sign this, the government has to respond.

MATTHEWS: We fought the revolution over there. That`s a bill of attainder. That
goes back to a law, you can`t do it. You can`t attack people for crimes that
weren`t crimes before they committed them. That`s why we had the revolution
against the British.

We`ll be right back after this.

MATTHEWS: Let me finish tonight with a strange unknown world of the United
States Senator Ted Cruz. Is there a world where the media and now it include me,
speaks about the party membership of mass killers? Is this something we do when
a mad man sprays bullets into a zoo room or movie theater, we cite the suspect`s
age, something about their known behavior beforehand, what the neighbors could
say about the person.

Do you ever remember me or anyone else in the journalism world saying, oh, yes,
the alleged killer was a registered Republican or Democrat or whatever? Did we
ever even say whether they were a frequent voter or not? Did we?

Or did you ever hear, say, in a program on prisoners in penitentiaries what
number of those in the pen were Democrats or Republicans? No. Rubio`s right on
this one, we don`t. But why should we? Is there something to be learned in
conducting a partisan roll call in Sing Sing or San Quentin or Folsom prison?

I can`t think of it right now any more than I can imagine the need to report on
the voting habits if they were publicly determinable of a mass killer. There`s
only one place on this planet where people wish to inquire to the voting habits
of either mass killers or street criminals -- that`s in the mind of Senator Ted
Cruz of Texas.

And that`s HARDBALL for now. Thanks for being with us.

"ALL IN WITH CHRIS HAYES" starts right now.

THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE
UPDATED.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120101cb.461

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript

                       Copyright 2015 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              Copyright 2015 MSNBC


                               9 of 24 DOCUMENTS


                                     MSNBC

                            December 1, 2015 Tuesday

                   SHOW: ALL IN with CHRIS HAYES 8:00 PM EST

ALL IN WITH CHRIS HAYES for December 1, 2015

BYLINE: Chris Hayes

GUESTS: Jesse Jackson, Jamie Kalven, Grant Bosse, Howard Dean, Leroy Carhart,
Wendy Davis

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 7431  words



HIGHLIGHT: Mayor Rahm Emanuel`s fires Chicago`s top cop as he faces backlash
over the Laquan McDonald video. After Chris Christie picks up a major
endorsement from New Hampshire, the biggest newspaper in the state he currently
governs is firing back.


(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

CHRIS HAYES, MSNBC HOST (voice-over): Tonight on ALL IN --

RAHM EMANUEL, CHICAGO CITY MAYOR: This morning, I formally asked for his
resignation.

HAYES: Mayor Rahm Emanuel`s fires Chicago`s top cop as he faces backlash over
the Laquan McDonald video.

EMANUEL: He has become an issue rather than dealing with the issue and a
distraction.

HAYES: Reverend Jesse Jackson says that resignation is not enough. I`ll ask him
if the mayor should be next.

Then, the alleged Chris Christie comeback.

GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE (R-NJ), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: There will be days you`ll
see me on TV as president and you`ll say, God, I cannot believe he said that.

HAYES: Why New Jersey`s largest newspaper says don`t` believe the hype.

Plus, new reports of panic among GOP leaders and top donors who are both fed up
and fearful of Trump.

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Hey, there`s only one way you get to
the top and it`s all through Trump. Let`s face it.

HAYES: When ALL IN starts right now.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

HAYES: Good evening from New York. I`m Chris Hayes.

Today, just one week after the release of dashcam video showing the fatal police
shooting of Laquan McDonald, the mayor of the third largest city in America
announced he was firing the city`s top cop. That news was sudden that as of late
as 8:00 a.m. this morning local time, Police Superintendent Garry McCarthy was
doing his normal rounds of media interviews.

By the afternoon, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel had relieved him of his duties
without citing any specific misconduct or incompetence related to the handling
of the case of Laquan McDonald, the 17-year-old shot and killed last October by
a Chicago police officer, an officer who was only charged with murder over a
year later after a judge ordered the release of dashcam footage showing
McDonald`s death. Instead, the mayor said he was firing Police Superintendent
Garry McCarthy because he had become a distraction.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

EMANUEL: This morning, I formally asked for his resignation. At this point in
this juncture for the city, given what we`re working on, he has become an issue
rather than dealing with the issue and a distraction.

REPORTER: Mr. McCarthy had become a distraction. There are a lot of questions in
this room about you and your office. Have you become a distraction, as well?

EMANUEL: Well, you`ll make that judgment. I think I`m doing my job and I try to
do it every day and do it in a professional way.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: Tonight, the attorney general of Illinois is now calling on the
Department of Justice to formally investigate the Chicago Police Department,
writing a letter to the Department of Justice, a department that has been dogged
by persistent established allegations of misconduct for decades.

We`ve covered many of those recent allegations as part of the reporting we`ve
been doing around policing in Chicago for the past two years. In the summer of
2014, we confronted Mayor Emanuel about a report the police department which had
reported a dramatic drop in homicides was manipulating the stats.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: Do you have full faith that these statistics are not being duped?

EMANUEL: Yes, absolutely, because -- look, the superintendent of the police
department leadership very focused on intelligence, data-driven focus, through
different methods and you can`t do what you need to do if the numbers are being
messed with, number one. Number two, even the inspector general complimented the
Chicago Police Department for the way they have been -- the integrity of their
numbers. It doesn`t mean you can`t focus on if there are challenges all the
time, but on their basic thrust and integrity of the numbers, absolutely.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: Several months later, 17-year-old Laquan McDonald was shot and killed by
a Chicago police officer. Since then, we`ve covered the difference made by a
police union representative the night that McDonald was killed and reported
widely in the media, and the autopsy slowing McDonald was shot 16 times.

Back in February, we filed a Freedom of Information Act request asking the
Chicago Police Department for the dashcam footage we had heard existed of the
shooting. That request was rejected. An appeal was also rejected.

Later, on an NBC Chicago report surfaced over an hour of surveillance video at a
Burger King near the site of the shooting had been erased, something yet to be
fully explained as of this broadcast. We spoke to the manager of the Burger
King.

This summer, we spoke to a former investigator with Chicago`s Independent Police
Review Authority, a body which investigates all allegations an of police
misconduct, about allegations that he was fired for finding officers at fault in
several civilian shootings.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: So, are you saying that this essentially was rigged, that basically, your
supervisors at IPRA were determined to get a finding of justified and if your
team went out and did the legwork and found it to be unjustified and came back
with that, they would say no and overrule you?

LORENZO DAVIS, FORMER INVESTIGATOR: Yes, that`s exactly what I`m saying.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: It`s in this context of all that history that those allegations that
Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel defended his response to the shooting death of Laquan
McDonald and because of that history for many the firing is not enough.

I spoke to Reverend Jesse Jackson founder of the Rainbow/Push Coalition and
asked him for his reaction to the firing of the Chicago police superintendent
this afternoon.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

JESSE JACKSON, RAINBOW/PUSH COALITION: Well, it`s very limited and it`s very
late -- 13 months late, the policeman who had 18 citations against him killed
this kid, shot 16 times.

And nine police who saw it never challenged nor charged him. That`s the culture.
It`s not enough to remove the head. It`s the culture.

Besides, the police chief should not be the fall guy for this crisis alone. Who
all saw the tape? Who authorized $5 million before there was even charges, for
example?

We need an independent prosecutor and we need federal oversight to have a local
oversight group without subpoena power is insufficient.

HAYES: The mayor`s argument today was that people are a little confused because
they were essentially following protocol by not interfering with this
independent investigation. They don`t want to get their fingerprints on that.
They want to let the investigation run its course.

Do you trust the mayor at this point that he is being straight with people when
they say essentially this was all handled on the up and up?

JACKSON: Well, I don`t trust the judgment in this instance not so much his
integrity. You know, because of these tapes, trials have come about that would
not have come about because we would have taken the police word for it. That`s
why you have cameras, you can have an instant public view of what is going on.

There`s no justifiable reason for suppressing the tapes for 13 months. And then
after suppressing those tapes for 13 months, finally after resisting having to
react after the judge has ruled the tapes must be made public.

HAYES: You just mentioned the culture of the Chicago Police Department and
obviously, there`s a long history that long predates this mayor or this
superintendent in terms of how the department has gone about its work and
criticisms of its accountability. Has this mayor sufficiently prioritized
reforms of that department in your opinion?

JACKSON: The cause has not changed sufficiently from Fred Hanrahan (ph), he
tried to kill Bobby Rush but killed Fred Hampton and Mark Clark to John Burge
(ph) and all the force, people into false confessions to Jason. It`s an unbroken
line, and the culture of silence, the silence, the culture of don`t tell, the
culture of suppression, the culture of lying, the culture of policemen afraid of
other police does not change sufficiently.

You know, while I`ve been focused on one kid that got shot, there are other
tapes in other cases yet to be resolved, as well. As a matter of fact, we paid
the last few years a half billion dollars in police misconduct -- while we`re
threatening to lay off 5,000 teachers, a half billion in misconduct which could
sustain the 5,000 teachers.

And so, this is not -- and further more, while you have this killing, there have
been 450 killings in Chicago this year, 450 -- 75 percent of those who have been
killed, the murders have not been resolved, have not been solved. So that`s why
there`s such a crisis in confidence.

I really think we need federal oversight because we need investigation of all
who saw the tape and what the actions were with subpoena power.

HAYES: There`s a very strong editorial run in the "New York Times" yesterday in
which a law professor formerly in Chicago, and now at Columbia basically says,
essentially alleges that the pattern of this was a cover-up and that not only
Superintendent McCarthy but Anita Alvarez, who`s a prosecutor at issue here who
took 400 days to charge and Mayor Emanuel himself, that they should all lose
their jobs, they should all step down. What do you think of that?

JACKSON: Well, I think that`s why the federal oversight is so important. That
all who saw the tape, who decided to suppress the tape for whatever reason they
chose to do it, must also come under investigation. Without subpoena power, you
will never get the truth about that. And that`s why there will be more action
this weekend. We`re probably going to begin to go back to the streets in bigger
numbers this weekend because until we get the police culture challenged, until
we get a special prosecutor and federal oversight, we cannot stop while this
momentum is moving as it is.

HAYES: All right. Reverend Jesse Jackson, thanks for your time.

JACKSON: Thank you, sir.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

HAYES: Joining me now, Jamie Kalven, independent journalist who first acquired
and published Laquan McDonald`s autopsy findings, also executive director of the
Invisible Institute.

Jamie, this probably would not have come to light had you and Craig Futterman
who we had on the show started looking into it because a whistleblower came to
you and said, look, there`s a tape, there`s an investigation. I fear that we`re
not getting the truth here.

Are you confident now having seen the mayor`s press conference today that
there`s a commitment on the part of the mayor, the Chicago police department to
being accountable and transparent?

JAMIE KALVEN, INDEPENDENT JOURNALIST: Not confident, but somewhat encouraged. I
think a step was taken today. A week ago, the mayor made a statement in
connection with the release of the video that said in effect, there`s one person
accountable for what happened to Laquan McDonald, Jason Van Dyke the officer who
shot him.

Today, the language was very different. He was talking about long- standing
systemic problems. He was talking about the structural institutional conditions
that breed abuse and shield it. It`s only a beginning but it is a beginning.

I agree with Reverend Jackson that the firing of Garry McCarthy is not reform in
itself. We in Chicago have over the years seen a recurring pattern with the
daily administration, particularly of scandal or crisis erupts, the head of --
the commissioner is fired, a blue ribbon commission is appointed. And then
pretty quickly, public attention moves elsewhere and the status quo reasserts
itself.

I think the challenge here is to ensure that that doesn`t happen. But I see an
opportunity for really significant police reform. And -- I mean, it`s very
poignant that it emerges out of the almost wholly negative example of how the
city responded to the shooting of Laquan McDonald.

HAYES: The mayor has announced a task force. You mentioned a task force, the
mayor announced a task force. Deval Patrick among others who was born in
Chicago, hasn`t lived there for a while, will be on it.

The mayor made this defense when you talk about the handling, and I think part
of the reason there`s anger and frustration or skepticism, look, this happened
400 days ago. People knew that this tape was around and knew enough to approve a
$5 million settlement and it kind of looks to everyone on the outside like you
just came together in the last minute because the tape got released. This is the
mayor defending essentially the procedures they took. Take a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

EMANUEL: Now, there`s a common practice across the country, and there`s a
practice in place here in the city of Chicago. You don`t hinder, you don`t
compromise an ongoing investigation. Yet, it`s clear you all want and the public
deserves that information. There are two conflicting principles.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: Do you think that`s true?

KALVEN: You know, I think that`s oversimplification of the issue that many
jurisdictions have faced in the last year. I mean, since Laquan McDonald was
shot, there have been a number of instances that are akin to this one.

I think the most notable one is in Cincinnati, you`ll recall, there was the
shooting of a motorist by a campus police officer. Again, you know, a grotesque
episode. Cincinnati which has really checkered ugly history of police abuse and
impunity in recent years has been working on its culture and systems and
oversight and procedures, and had adopted before that shooting a rule -- I`m not
exactly sure of the time period -- but that relevant evidence such as a video
would be released within 24 or 48 hours of the occurrence of the incident,
unless there was a compelling specific investigative reason to withhold it
longer.

In the case of the shooting in Cincinnati, I think they released a week later, a
week after the shooting. And the reason they held on to it was a couple of other
officers had given essentially false statements supporting the shooter`s account
and they wanted to use the video to nail those officers.

That seems to me to be what real accountability looks like. I think the mayor
was framing a false issue with his on the one hand, on the other hand. This is
public information.

HAYES: Yes, and we should be clear, right? The judge ruled that. This was
released because a FOIA was successfully litigated, the FOIA that you pursued to
get the autopsy ball rolling. And I should just say that your work on this,
you`re a tremendous journalist and have been for a long time on these issues,
your work on this case has been particularly crucial. So, thank you for that.

Jamie Kalven, appreciate it.

KALVEN: I appreciate that.

HAYES: All right. Still ahead, after Chris Christie picks up a major endorsement
from New Hampshire, the biggest newspaper in the state he currently governs is
firing back.

Plus, could the GOP withstand the shock waves of a Donald Trump nomination? Why
Republicans are worried about losing more than the White House?

Those stories and more ahead.

HAYES: This term, the Supreme Court will decide its first major abortion case
since 2007, a challenge to the Texas law that bans abortion after 20 weeks and a
severely diminished the number of clinics available to women in that state. That
law is part of a broad and sophisticated movement in this country to limit
women`s access to safe and legal abortion.

Ahead, our "All In America" special report on how anti-abortion activists are
succeeding and reaction from former Texas State Senator Wendy Davis.

HAYES: After New Jersey Governor Chris Christie locked up the endorsement of
"The New Hampshire Union Leader", the bigger paper in the state he`s visited,
according to "Politico", 49 times, where he`s hosted 36 official town halls and
held more than 112 events, the biggest newspaper in his own state is firing
back. "The New Jersey Star Ledger" which in 2013 endorsed him for governor only
to call that decision regrettable a year later writing, quote, "Yes, we blew
this one".

Well, today, they have a piece titled, "You won`t believe why New Hampshire`s
top paper endorsed Christie." "Star Ledger`s" editorial board called up "The
Union Leader`s" editorial page editor, "a very nice guy by the name of Grant
Bosse", in essence to try and understand why his paper decided to endorse
Governor Christie and to find out how much they knew about his actual record as
governor.

"The Star Ledger" writes, quote, "The New Hampshire Union Leader knows almost
nothing about his record as governor. Take Bridgegate, the editorial made no
mention of it. How about pension reform? The board of Manchester did not know
that Christie broke his core promise on that by skipping pension payments."

Bosse responded, quote, "I don`t know if we went into the weeds on pension
reform."

Well, joining me now is Grant Bosse, the editorial page editor of "The New
Hampshire Union Leader".

Mr. Bosse, how do you plead here? Basically the home state paper says you guys
don`t know the full record.

GRANT BOSSE, THE NEW HAMPSHIRE UNION LEADER: Well, that`s not true. And at this
point, the star ledger is Chris Christie`s crazy ex-girlfriend. They dated him
in 2013. They broke up with him last year, and now, they`re going around town
bad mouthing anybody that he takes out to dinner. So, I don`t think they have a
lot of credibility when it comes to Chris Christie.

HAYES: Do you really want to stick with that?

BOSSE: We think he was a great governor.

HAYES: You want to stick with that metaphor, Mr. Bosse?

BOSSE: Yes, they`re just going around saying bad things. Maybe their headline
should have been newspaper that endorses Christie slams newspaper that endorses
Christie.

HAYES: What about this? Let`s take the star ledger out of it. Does it factor
into your process the fact that he really is very unpopular right now in the
state of New Jersey? He`s underwater in approval rating. A vast majority of New
Jerseyans want him to quit the presidential race, and that compares to someone
like say John Kasich also a governor, also in this race who has quite a
favorable view among the people in the state he governs.

BOSSE: Well, traditionally and this year we don`t put a lot of stock in polls.
We look at who we think would be the best president, who we think would be the
best nominee, you follow the Buckley rule and nominate the most conservative
candidate who can win. We think that`s Chris Christie.

HAYES: So, you think the voters of New Jersey are just wrong basically when they
assess their own governor`s possible performance at president?

BOSSE: I think the voters of New Jersey were right in 2009 and they were right
in 2013, and he`s been a good governor.

HAYES: What do you think has been so good about his governing?

BOSSE: He`s a fiscal conservative in a Democratic state. You look at other
governors who got pretty good records, Governor Jindal and Walker and Perry are
out of the race. Governor Bush and Walker have good records. But they`re all
governors in Republican states. They kind of have the home field advantage.

When you`re a pro-life, anti-tax conservative Republican like Chris Christie,
every day is a road game. And he`s shown he can win on the road in a blue state.
He`s balanced six budgets in a row, he`s vetoed 70 tax increases, he`s passed
pension reform, he`s passed teacher tenure reform for New Jersey schools.

He`s had real conservative accomplishments in a blue state. We think that would
serve him very well in Washington.

HAYES: But he`s also -- I mean, part of the problem, right, is he`s also reneged
on that pension reform. He`s kicked the can down the road on the payment. He`s
overseen nine credit downgrades. He`s overseen an economy that has lagged behind
the national economy in terms of recovery and things like that can job creation.

BOSSE: Well, you want to talk pensions? Let`s talk pensions. He`s put $4 billion
into the pension system, more than all New Jersey governors before him combined.
He passed significant reform to the pension plan.

And the problem came when you were looking for the next step to try to address
not just pensions but retiree health. He put out a road map and the Democrats
walked away. The unions walked away and stopped the next step. In fact, back in,
I believe it was August --

(CROSSTALK)

HAYES: Right. But he did skip the payments.

BOSSE: -- said the governor`s road map would have greatly helped the state`s
long-term fiscal plan.

HAYES: Well, let me ask you this -- you said something interesting this morning
on our air about climate change. Take a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you believe in climate change?

CHRISTIE: Sure.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It`s occurring.

CHRISTIE: But climate`s always changing. And we cannot say, we cannot say that
our activity doesn`t contribute to changing the climate.

What I`m saying is, it`s not a crisis. I don`t buy the fact that it`s a crisis.
I don`t buy the fact that it`s a crisis. I just don`t.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Why not?

CHRISTIE: Because I don`t believe it is. I don`t think there`s any evidence that
it`s a crisis.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: What do you think of a governor who oversaw Hurricane Sandy who was there
when 100-year storm hit his own state, put much of it underwater says it`s not a
crisis?

BOSSE: Are you saying that super storm sandy was caused by global warming,
Chris? Come on. You`ve got no evidence of that. You`re just making that up.

HAYES: I`m sorry? No, no --

BOSSE: There`s no evidence.

HAYES: There`s no one specific cause. You realize the sea level was already
higher due to global warming. There`s actually pretty good reporting that shows
that hundreds if not thousands of homes were flooded that wouldn`t have been in
the absence of climate change raising the water level.

BOSSE: That`s ridiculous. We`ve got a president that wants to take on climate
change and won`t take on ISIS. He says the real enemy is cynicism. Forgive me if
I`m a little cynical about that. We need a president that thinks that national
security is the real priority and the real threat and the real crisis, and not
climate change.

HAYES: There`s been -- if I`m not mistaken, I think 9,000 airstrikes overseen by
this president of ISIS. Just for the record.

Grant Bosse, thanks for joining us.

Bernie Sanders underwent elective surgery. And after waking up, the first words
out of his mouth are just too good not to share. That`s next.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: We`re leading in everything. The biggest crowds by far, so much bigger
than Bernie Sanders. You always hear about Bernie Sanders. Our crowds, no --

(BOOS)

May he rest in peace. You know he had an operation today. I think it was a
hernia operation. You know? You know why? Carrying around too much tax problems.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: He`ll be here all week, ladies and gentlemen.

Despite what may have been implied by Donald Trump last night saying of Bernie
Sanders and I`m quoting here "may he rest in peace," Bernie Sanders is alive and
well following a hernia procedure in Washington yesterday. In fact, Sanders was
already back on the Senate floor this afternoon defending Planned Parenthood and
blasting a GOP budget bill to effectively appeal Obamacare.

There are a couple things you can find admirable about Bernie Sanders. The first
is his apparent indefatigability. At age 74, Sanders is a near constant presence
on the campaign trail and he isn`t neglecting his duties during his presidential
run.

Sanders missed only 3 percent of his Senate votes in the first nine months of
this year, a far better record than any of the other senators running for
president except for Rand Paul.

The other trait anyone should be able to admire about Sanders is he really does
believe what he says he believes. His consistency, which he has maintained over
the course of a political career that began in 1981.

Yesterday, after Sander`s hernia procedure, these two traits came together. True
to form, Sanders first words upon leaving the recovery room, according to his
spokesman were, quote, "medicare for all," a reference to Sander`s universal
health care plan.

Sanders is scheduled to get back out on the road this week. If the fiery speech
he gave on the senate floor today is any indication, looks like he won`t be
slowing down one bit.

HAYES: For Republicans who fear that Hillary Clinton is poised to win the
presidency, they`ve been able to take solace in one pretty undeniable fact.

Even with a Democrat in the oval office, Republicans have a huge advantage down
ballot that gives them massive power to shape policy. Republicans have unified
control of 25 states, they control 70% of state legislatures and more than 60%
of governors. And of course, the GOP controls both the house and the senate,
giving Republicans the ability to block much of any Democratic president`s
agenda.

Well, Republicans are now coming to terms with what for them is a pretty
frightening possibility.

Donald Trump wins the GOP presidential nomination, and then, the thinking goes,
he loses the general election by a huge margin, and takes the party down with
him.

The New York Times reports today that many leading Republican officials,
strategists and donors now say they fear that Mr. Trump`s nomination would lead
to an electoral wipeout, one that would likely cost the party the senate and
mean big loses at the state level.

Senator Lindsey Graham, one of Trump`s presidential rivals, told The Times a
Trump nomination would be a quote, "utter, complete and total disaster." Adding,
"if you`re a xenophobic, race-baiting religious bigot, you`re going to have a
hard time being president of the United States, and you`re going to do
irreparable damage to the party."

Top Republican officials and donors are reportedly wary of taking on Trump
because they fear their attacks could backfire. And they also don`t want Trump,
never shy about insulting his critics, to come after them personally.

At this point, The Times reports, almost everyone in the Republican party`s
upper echelons agrees something must be done, and almost no one is willing to do
it.

Trump himself just wrapped up a campaign rally in New Hampshire, where he cast
himself as the candidate the GOP has been waiting for.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DONALD TRUMP, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I backed McCain, he lost. I backed
Mitt Romney, he lost. This time I said, now I`m going to do it myself, right?
I`m doing it myself. No, I`m doing it myself.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: Joining me now, MSNBC political analyst, former Vermont governor Howard
Dean, former chair of the Democratic National Committee.

So there`s these reports about all these conversations that are happening in
quiet rooms with people, big donors, people that have influence, the senator of
Republican networks about what to do about Trump.

Is there anything they can do?

HOWARD DEAN, MSNBC POLITICAL ANALYST: They could but they won`t.

They could find one established candidate that they all could coalesce behind
and that person might be able to beat Donald Trump, maybe. But then, in order to
do that, they`ve got to get a lot of people to give up their dreams and that`s
not going to happen.

HAYES: Right, so right now he is -- one of the huge advantages he has -- I mean,
you have to keep reminding yourself, right? I mean, this is someone who`s
leading the pack with 28% of the vote, 34% of the vote. Right?

It`s him against the field, right?

DEAN: Right.

HAYES: So you`re saying that if you could actually strong arm people into
dropping out, if you could get that field down and coalesce, you think that`s
probably the best shot.

DEAN: I think it is their best shot, but the problem is they`re probably going
to let the voters do it for them as they usually do. And, by that time, it may
be too late.

I said before on this show, March 15th, the first winner take all primary is
Florida. That is where Donald Trump could wrap up the nomination.

HAYES: Well, here`s where you and I have discussed this before. You are very
different individual, politician with views than Donald Trump I want to
stipulate. But, I remember in 2004 when you were -- the Dean campaign was this
phenomenon. And I remember reading articles back then that read a lot like that
article I read today, which was, these freaked out conversations happening among
the Democratic party, elders and donors being like, what the heck do we do? How
do we bring him down?

DEAN: Robert Gibbs ran a Pac funded by donors from Wes Clark, Dick Gephardt, Joe
Lieberman and Kerry, which went after me and had me merging into Osama Bin Laden
and all this kind of stuff.

It`s a hard business we`re in here.

HAYES: I remember. That was after Saddam Hussein was found? And you said
something like, I don`t think this makes us any safer, which let`s be clear --

DEAN: Which was true, but proven not a smart thing to say.

HAYES: Well, sometimes those two categories are mutually exclusive.

So how much though did that end up being what hurt you, and how much does that
sort of -- how much does establishment, money or establishment doesn`t even
matter, right?

DEAN: Here`s the difference. The difference is that a lot of -- I really brought
my own wood to the fire. I was an insurrectionist and at the end of the day,
it`s hard to nominate an insurrectionist to be president of the United States.
And I was trying to make the turn and I couldn`t do it, which is my failing.

But the thing is, I think the Republicans could nominate an insurrectionist.
It`s their own fault. They`ve been feeding this beast since 1968 with Richard
Nixon and the southern strategy, and now they can`t stop it. It`s a monster of
their own creation.

HAYES: Why is it different, though this time? We`ve seen -- you saw Buchanan, I
remember watching, as a kid watching those New Hampshire primary returns in it
must have been `92, right? When Buchanan wins New Hampshire against H.W.

You know, they`ve had flirtations with these kind of candidates before. Every
time they come back home.

DEAN: Pat Buchanan had no money. Donald Trump`s got plenty of money. They`re
super PACs, they`re all kinds of things. The parties are so much weaker now than
they were then, and they were weaker then than they were 50 years ago.

The party essentially has no influence on either side.

HAYES: That to me is the key. When you read about these elder statesmen, when
you read about basically a lot of billionaires, conservative billionaires who
want to have a president in the White House who will take their calls, that`s
what it comes down to.

DEAN: Right. And hat has totally neutered the party, and the Republican party is
in deep trouble despite -- I know it seems like a weird thing to say when they
control all the things you just showed on the screen, but they`re really in
trouble because their base doesn`t look anything like the rest of the country
and they`re getting older every day.

HAYES: Yeah, but I`ve heard that for so long. There`s still a lot of juice left
in that orange, politically.

I mean, there`s still a lot of votes there.

DEAN: There`s some very adept operatives. This business of restricting people`s
right to vote, gerrymandering. Eventually the voters win. They`re going to win.

HAYES: We`re going to find out. Eventually the voters win, says Howard Dean.

Great to have you.

Ahead, new reporting on the dwindling doubt about the motive in the attack on
Planned Parenthood in Colorado Springs, and then our All In America report on
the decades long struggle for access to safe abortions. We`ll look how anti-
abortion activists are successfully taking America back to a pre Roe V Wade
world.

Today MSNBC is the celebrating Giving Tuesday, a global day dedicated to giving
back. A simple idea as we near the end of the year and scramble to purchase
holiday gifts, a reminder to devote some of our time, money and energy to
organizations and people who do difficult, good work for others.

To learn more, visit GIVINGTUESDAY.MSNBC.COM. There are thousands of worthwhile
charities that can benefit from a donation, of course.

We at All In, me personally, would like to draw your attention to Doctors
Without Borders. They are winners of a Nobel Peace Prize, a group of
tremendously admirable, courageous and dedicated individuals who provide medical
care in the midst of active war zones across the world, often at great personal
risk, as illustrated by the American Air strikes that killed at least 30 people,
including 13 staff members of Doctors Without Borders in Afghanistan just this
year.

The work that those doctors do is simply irreplaceable, and you can help them do
it.

HAYES: We`re learning more about Robert Dear, the man who killed three people
and wounded nine others, a semi-automatic rifle at a Planned Parenthood clinic
in Colorado Springs.

It appears that Dear has been as opposed to Planned Parenthood for decades.

The woman who was married to Dear from 1985 to 1993 said today, Dear once put
glue in the locks of a Planned Parenthood clinic near where they were living at
the time. That was over 20 years ago when he did that she said.

Meanwhile, The New York Times spoke with several people who knew Dear. One
person telling The Times that Dead had praised people who attack abortion
providers, saying they were doing "God`s work", and called members of one
extremist anti-abortion group heroes.

Now violence against abortion providers and clinics in the scope of
anti-abortion activism is but a tiny fraction, and it`s often refuted and
condemned by the larger, more mainstream parts of the movement.

But it is one part of the movement that across the spectrum is devoted through
various means, some legal and some not, to making sure women don`t get
abortions, even if the Supreme Court says the Constitution guarantees them that
right.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DR. LEROY CARHART, ABORTION PROVIDER: We were one of the few hospitals in the
United States in 1970 that was doing abortions. I did my first apportion before
Roe V Wade.

That`s where we took care of so many of the patients that had problems with
their either self tempted or back alley abortions.

HAYES: And that converted you in some way?

CARHART: It didn`t convert me. I think it just awakened me that this was just,
you know, somebody had to do it and there was a -- an innate wrong. It was wrong
not to do it.

HAYES: Before 1973, abortion was illegal across much of the country. To receive
proper medical care, a woman not only had to have enough money, but she had to
live in or near just a handful of states.

And if she didn`t, she had little choice but to terminate her pregnancy on her
own.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE SPEAKER: She had opened out a hair pin, placed it within the
cervix.

HAYES: It was a public health crisis.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It would have a permanent effect on me psychologically.
because I`m not capable of being a mother at this time.

HAYES: But that all changed when a challenge to the status quo found its way to
the Supreme Court.

SARAH WEDDINGTON, ATTORNEY: We are not here to advocate abortion. We are here to
advocate that the decision as to whether or not a particular woman will continue
to carry or will terminate a pregnancy is a decision that should be made by that
individual.

HAYES: The landmark ruling in Roe versus Wade transformed women`s health care as
we know it.

DR. ALAN GUTTMACHER, PLANNED PARENTHOOD: January 22nd, 1973 will stand out as
one of the great days for freedom and free choice.

HAYES: It also gave rise to a permanent cultural and political backlash.

MSGR. EUGENE CLARK, NEW YORK ARCHDIOCESE: Whatever their legal rationale, seven
men have made a tragic utilitarian judgment regarding who shall live and who
shall die.

HAYES: By the 1990s, the abortion wars took to the streets. And a new legal
challenge made its way to the Supreme Court. Planned Parenthood versus Casey.

KATIE COURIC, JOURNALIST: We`re receiving word after an important decision from
the U.S. Supreme Court involving abortion.

HAYES: At issue were provisions in a Pennsylvania law that restricted a woman`s
access to abortion.

The court handed down a divided decision.

Abortion remained a constitutional right for women across the country, but it
was a right that could be restricted by individual states.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The court upheld provisions of the law requiring abortion
counseling, a 24-hour waiting period and parental consent for minors.

KATE MUCHELMAN, NATIONAL ABORTION ACTION LEAGUE: What the court did today is
devastating for women.

HAYES: In the decades since, the court has affirmed and sometimes expanded the
ways in which states can restrict access to abortion.

And it is under that legal framework that many states today are targeting
abortion services.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Missouri will now have one of the toughest abortion laws in
the nation.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Overnight from Texas, where the senate has approved one of
the most restrictive abortion bills in the country.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Signed one of the nation`s strictest anti- abortion bills
into law.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Virginia is set to enact one of the toughest anti-abortion
bills in the country.

HAYES: The rise of Republican controlled state houses has paved the way for an
onslaught of anti-choice legislation.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They want to ban abortion. They can`t ban abortion by
overturning Roe. They found out that that doesn`t work.

So what do they do? They pull it apart piece by piece, they add in waiting
periods. They prohibit your health plan from covering abortion. They limit how
medication can be provided. They ban certain methods of abortion.

It makes it incredibly difficult for providers to do their job, and for women to
access services.

HAYES: In just the last four years, states have enacted over 230 abortion
restrictions. Much of it designed to make it more difficult for women to get
access to care, or in some cases, close clinics all together.

And now, some state houses are targeting abortion by closing the window within
the pregnancy in which a woman can have one.

In 2010, Nebraska did just that.

COURIC: The governor signed an unprecedented law banning abortions after the
20th week or fifth month of pregnancy.

HAYES: The law took aim at the practice of Doctor Leroy Carhart. Dr. Carhart
performs abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy, when many birth defects and
health complications are discovered.

MIKE FLOOD, NEBRASKA STATE SENATOR: I didn`t find this bill, it found Nebraska,
and that we have a provider in this state that wants to perform late term
abortions.

HAYES: With the signing of that bill, Carhart began traveling to Maryland to
perform abortions after 20 weeks and was greeted by protests.

REV. PATRICK MAHONEY, CHRISTIAN ACTIVIST: We will not be complacent while women
are being brutalized and viable children are dying.

HAYES: What Dr. Carhart experienced in Nebraska has now expanded to nearly a
dozen states, where similar or in some cases stricter measures are in effect.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They`re adopting laws, the laws are going into effect and
women are falling by the wayside because they can`t access services when they
need them.

HAYES: It`s fueled a climate of intimidation and harassment, leaving the few
people left trying to provide those services to live under constant threat.

Over the years, Dr. Carhart has received multiple threats of violence, both at
his clinic and his home.

After the family barn burned down, killing horses and pets, Carhart got a letter
saying it was in retaliation for the work he did.

In 2009, his friend and colleague, Dr. George Tiller, was assassinated while at
church.

Do you worry about your security?

CARHART: The only thing we can do is try to protect our self the best we can.
There`s no way it`s going to get between me and the mission that I`ve chosen.

HAYES: The anti-abortion movement in this country may not have succeeded in
getting Roe overturned, but they are on track to achieving the same goal.

CARHART: It`s even deeper than eliminating all abortions. I think the agenda is
still to take away the right of a woman to control her fertility. That`s where I
really think the basic issue is.

HAYES: 45 years ago, a woman could get an abortion in America if she lived in
the right place and had the means to do so. What Roe did was guarantee that
right to every woman in every state.

But the future we are now entering looks a whole lot like the past.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: Next, former State Senator Wendy Davis famously filibustered in 2013 to
block a bill intended to place more restrictions on abortion access in Texas.

She joins me life just after the break.

HAYES: One of the states where restrictions on abortion access have had the most
impact is Texas, where in 2013, state legislatures passed a bill banning the
procedure after 20 weeks and imposing onerous and medically unnecessary
requirements on providers.

Since then, many clinics have been unable to meet those requirements and forced
to close.

And now, according to a University of Texas study, the lack of access may be
driving Texas women to take matters in their own hands.

Just a few weeks ago, the Supreme Court agreed to hear a challenge to the Texas
law known as HB2, the first major abortion case to reach the high court in eight
years.

Joining me now, former State Senator, Wendy Davis, a Democrat from Texas who
filibustered that law.

What are the stakes, from your perspective, of this Supreme Court case?

WENDY DAVIS, FORMER TEXAS STATE SENATOR: The stakes are huge, and they`re not
just huge for Texas women. They`re huge for women all over the country.

If the court affirms the law in Texas and allows it to be fully implemented, I
have no doubt that other states will immediately follow suit in enacting some of
the very same provisions.

HAYES: Can you imagine, I mean you`re a lawyer, and you (inaudible) here. Can
you imagine a scenario in which the court, recognizing what a kind of disruptive
and seismic reversal it would be to overturn Roe, essentially carves out this
kind of path in which they allow greater and greater restrictions while
upholding Roe, and you get more and more Texas style laws while abortion remains
at least in name a constitutional right.

DAVIS: If the court upholds this law, they will gut Roe versus Wade. There`s no
question about it.

And the consequences of it will put us back to a pre-Roe condition in this
country for so many women who will no longer have access to abortion care.

It`s because of that that I believe the court is not going to uphold the
provisions that are being challenged here, and is going to understand that there
is an absolute undue burden that`s been placed on women in Texas as a
consequence of this law.

We saw from the report that you referenced earlier, Chris, that women are now
having to wait around a 20-day longer period of time before they can access
abortion care. There`s no question it makes it less safe for them and their
health in order to wait later in a pregnancy to receive an abortion.

And, as you said in that report, it certainly is demonstrating an indication
that women in Texas have now once again, like pro -- pre-Roe, taken matters into
their own hands and self-induced abortions.

HAYES: One of the sort of remarkable feats of the anti-abortion movement is to
create these repairs different pair barriers and so, one of the things we`ve
seen as a timeline, you know, there`s legislation that bans the procedure after
a certain period, say 20 weeks. Then there`s legislation that makes it harder to
actually get an abortion.

And so women find themselves with this window in which it`s legal and possible
to obtain an abortion and that window keeps getting squeezed quite intentionally
by people trying to essentially get rid of abortion.

DAVIS: There`s no question about it. And when you look at the further squeeze,
the squeeze that happened in Texas in 2011 and continued in 2013 and even in the
last legislative session of 2015, there`s a further effort to defund the
contraceptive and family planning portion of reproductive health care in the
state of Texas. And clearly there`s a desire to do that at the national level as
well.

It`s no accident that there is a call for defunding Planned Parenthood.

The people who are calling for that understand that 97% of the work that Planned
Parenthood does has nothing to do with abortion but instead has to do with
helping to prevent unplanned pregnancies, cancer screens and other care that`s
so vital and important for men and women in this country.

And it goes to the comment on the video earlier that this is about so much more
than taking away a woman`s right to abortion, and instead is really going and
getting to the issue of controlling women because when women`s reproductive
autonomy is controlled, their economic opportunity is controlled. There`s no
question about it.

HAYES: All right. Wendy Davis, thank you.

And that is All In for this evening. The Rachel Maddow show is coming up next.

Good evening, Rachel.

THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE
UPDATED.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120101cb.478

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript

                       Copyright 2015 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              Copyright 2015 MSNBC


                               10 of 24 DOCUMENTS


                                     MSNBC

                            December 1, 2015 Tuesday

                    SHOW: THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW 9:00 PM EST

THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW for December 1, 2015

BYLINE: Rachel Maddow, Steve Kornacki

GUESTS: Nicole Gonzalez Van Cleve

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 7571  words



HIGHLIGHT: In a year when none of the old rules seem to apply and none of his
rivals for the nomination seem to getting anywhere near him for love or money,
even for lots and lots and lots of money, Donald Trump continues to lead the
field. Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel fired the city`s police superintendent. In
full coordination with the government of Iraq, the U.S. government is deploying
a specialized expeditionary targeting force to assist Iraqi and Kurdish
Peshmerga forces and put even more pressure on ISIL.


WENDY DAVIS (D-TX), FORMER STATE SENATOR: -- to the issue of controlling women
because when women`s reproductive autonomy is controlled, their economic
opportunity is controlled. There`s no question about it.

CHRIS HAYES, "ALL IN" HOST: All right. Wendy Davis, thank you.

DAVIS: Thank you, Chris.

HAYES: That is "ALL IN" for this evening.

THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW starts right now. Good evening, Rachel.

RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: Good evening, Chris. Thanks, my friend.

HAYES: You bet.

MADDOW: And thanks to you at home for joining us this hour.

Republican presidential candidate Jeb Bush just made a big announcement tonight.
I think. It`s a little bit hard to tell with Jeb Bush, but I think that in
Waterloo, Iowa, tonight, Jeb Bush has just announced that he is going to pick a
woman for a running mate. He`s going to pick a female vice presidential running
mate if he gets the Republican presidential nomination.

I think that`s what he said. The caveat here is that it`s Jeb Bush. And so
sometimes, particularly when he thinks he`s got something important to say, he
kind of winds up to it and doesn`t exactly execute right and it`s sometimes hard
to know what he means when he talks.

But I think this is -- judge for yourself. He may have meant something else
entirely and I`m just misunderstanding, but I think he said he wants to pick a
female running mate.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JEB BUSH (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I think my dad loved Ronald Reagan that
his loyalty was proven out. As a result, he was given responsibilities that
allowed him to really add value to the relationship. That kind of relationship I
think is really important.

And should I be elected president, I would have my vice president, I think she
will be a great partner. I mean, did I say that out loud?

We always talk about this with one gender in mind. I think we`ve reached the
point in our country where maybe we should be a little less gender specific
about this.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MADDOW: And then he didn`t elaborate. But that was Jeb Bush speaking in
Waterloo, Iowa, tonight about how he wants to be less gender specific when it
comes to talk about the vice presidency.

You see what I mean how it`s a little hard to know what he means? I mean, when
he says we always talk about this with one gender in mind, that would -- that
would still be a roundabout way of saying it, but it would at least make sense
if nobody had nominated a female vice presidential running mate before. But
that`s happened already a couple of times, including pretty recently.

So, again, I cannot quite be sure if Jeb Bush just said he was going to pick a
woman as his running mate if he gets the nomination but he might have been
trying to say that tonight in Iowa, which at least is a good effort on his part
to make some news, to frankly get people to imagine the prospect of him winning
the nomination.

If Governor Bush does succeed in getting people to talk about this new prospect
so awkwardly floated by the candidate tonight, that would be significantly
better news for him than the other story that dropped into presidential politics
today like a cannonball into the kiddy pool. That was these new numbers
collected and published by NBC News today which showed TV ad spending by each of
the Republican presidential candidates.

This is not easy information to get. There`s no one place where all this
information can be easily garnered. You have to go out in the field and get this
stuff, especially when you want to look at the meaningful number which is
campaign spending, plus candidates supporting super PAC spending. It can be hard
to track this stuff down.

But NBC News got that work done and came up with what ended up being a pretty
eye-popping result today, because what you`re looking at there on your screen
right now, that`s all the ad spending from both candidates` campaigns and super
PACs supporting them on TV ads during the 2016 campaign so far. This is all of
the candidates except one, because there`s one candidate who blows everybody
else away in terms of how much money he has spent. And that guy is Jeb Bush.

Look at this. Jeb Bush nearly triples his nearest competitor in terms of how
much ad spending any of the candidates have done this year. Jeb Bush has spent
$30 million already, just on TV ads, to try to improve his standing among
Republican primary voters.

And in that time, this is what`s happened, this is that little line there, this
is what`s happened to Jeb Bush`s standing in the polls in Iowa. This is what`s
happened to Jeb Bush`s standing in the polls in New Hampshire. This is what has
happened to Jeb Bush`s standing in the polls in South Carolina. And this is what
has happened to his standing in the polls nationwide.

That`s what $30 million has bought him in ad spending. That`s the polling
result. That`s the performance he has had from spending almost as much money as
all of the other Republican presidential candidates combined on his TV ads.

That is just terrible. You spend $30 million, you want your numbers to go up.

But that dynamic which is phenomenal, that shows just how wrong all of the old
received common wisdom of how presidential politics works now and how campaigns
win and lose now. I mean, at the very outset of the 2016 campaign, Jeb Bush was
clearly ripping a page out of his big brother`s presidential playbook from a
very long time ago when George W. Bush ran for the first time in 2000, he
basically cleared the field on the Republican side. He intimidated people out of
even try too long run against him by virtue of the fact that he raised so much
money so quickly.

George W. Bush in 2000 was loud and proud about his huge unprecedented
fund-raising numbers. And that worked as intimidation basically to keep some
would be competitors from even trying to run against him. Jeb Bush tried the
same thing this time around.

You know, a normal campaign might try to lower expectations in terms of how much
money they were going to raise and then they try to wow everybody when it came
time to announce their totals by telling everyone they exceeded their goals.

The Jeb Bush campaign didn`t do it that way. They said we`re going to raise $100
million immediately. We`re going to raise $100 million in three months basically
before the campaign even starts for anyone else. They bragged ahead of time that
they were going to raise that much money and then they did it.

And the working theory was that that tactic would work the same way for Jeb Bush
as it did for his big brother. That shocking intimidating fund-raising number
would keep the Republican field nice and small, and give Jeb instant
front-runner status and an air of inevitability that would pave his way to the
nomination.

He really did raise all that money. He really did try that strategy, $100
million announced loud and proud before the campaign even started. That was just
a tremendous fund-raising haul.

But after that point, nothing worked the way it was supposed to. I mean, despite
raising all that money, Jeb Bush ended up running in a historically enormous
17-person Republican candidate field. And now that he`s in that field, what was
supposed to be so intimidating about all that money, his ability to basically
buy the primary by blanketing the airwaves turns out it doesn`t work this year,
turns out Jeb Bush`s money is no good.

He`s been spending money like he is on fire and the money is flame retardant
foam, but it is not working, $30 million spent already as of December 1st. And
he`s settled in the polls at 5 percent on a good day.

Now, the flipside of this truly strange phenomenon is the guy who absolutely
positively really is winning the race for the Republican nomination. Donald
Trump`s numbers are among the highest they have been throughout his entire
campaign right now. They`ve plateaued for a while but they`re going back up
again in most places.

And in some ways his lead, particularly his national lead looks all the more
commanding now that Ben Carson seems to be falling apart.

But look at where Donald Trump is compared to the rest of the field and his ad
spending. Donald Trump is there far right side of your screen. He spent less
money on ads than any other candidate.

According to these new numbers from NBC News, Jeb Bush is outspending Donald
Trump in terms of TV ads at approximate rate of 133 to 1. Jeb Bush is spending
over 130 times what Donald Trump is spending for the completely opposite result.

And who knows, maybe Jeb Bush announcing today that he desires less gender
specificity in the thinking about the vice presidency, maybe that will turn it
all around for him. But in the meantime, with the rules of previous campaigns
not apparently applying to this one, the Republican Party appears to be
adjusting its expectations to account for the real, not joking possibility of a
Donald Trump Republican presidential nomination to the point where "New York
Times" reporter Jonathan Martin got a bunch of Republican officials who are
concerned about things like Senate races around the country to tell him today
that basically to state out loud to him today, their fears about what a Trump
candidacy would do to the rest of the Republican Party.

Quoting today from Jonathan Martin`s article in "The New York Times", quote,
"Many leading Republican officials strategists and donors now say they fear that
Mr. Trump`s nomination would lead to an electoral wipeout, a sweeping defeat
that could undo some of the gains Republicans have made in recent congressional
state and local elections."

Matt Borges, who`s chairman of the Ohio Republican Party tells "The Times",
quote, "If Donald Trump carries his message into the general election in Ohio,
we will hand this election to Hillary Clinton. We`ll then try to salvage the
rest of the ticket."

A former Republican Party chairman from the state of Illinois tells "The Times",
quote, "If Donald Trump is our nominee, the repercussions of that in this state
would be devastating."

Brian Walsh who is described as a Republican campaign Senate veteran, tells "The
Times", quote, "If we nominate a bad candidate like Donald Trump, Senators like
Rob Portman of Ohio or Kelly Ayotte in Hampshire are not going to be able to
outrun Hillary by that much and there goes the Senate."

An unnamed but, quote, "prominent" Republican senator also tells Jonathan Martin
at "The Times", quote, "there is not a bit of confusion among our members that
if Donald Trump is the nominee, we`re going to get wiped out." Meaning
Republicans are going to get wiped out in the United States Senate.

And so, there is this is interesting panic in the Republican Party that somebody
should do something to ensure that Donald Trump doesn`t win the presidential
nomination. It looks like is he on track to do that right now. But every time
somebody goes at him, they get chewed up and spat out. They end up the worse off
for it and he doesn`t.

Rick Perry was the first Republican presidential competitor to really try to
make his campaign all about stopping Donald Trump. Rick Perry was also the first
Republican contender to drop out of the race.

Then, Bobby Jindal for a while made Donald Trump his cause, as well, including
lots of cute little Instagram videos attacking Donald Trump and going out of his
way to talk smack about Donald Trump. And now, Bobby Jindal is out of the race,
as well.

Lindsey Graham is willing to talk on the record any time to anyone about how
much he`s against Donald Trump and how much he wants Donald Trump to not be the
nominee and how terrible Donald Trump would be for the Republican Party and the
country, but part of the reason Lindsey Graham is unavoidable for comment on
that subject is because I don`t know you are from Adam and neither does Eve, but
he`ll return your phone call if you call him. He`s not busy. He can`t even get
into the kids table in the debates anymore, he`s polling so low.

Rand Paul also tried to pick fights with Donald Trump when he was still allowed
onto the main teenage of the Republican debates. But now, Rand Paul, he too has
sunk so low that today, if the next Republican debate were being blocked and
staged today, Rand Paul is not polling high enough right now to make it onto the
main stage. He would be slated for the kids table if the next debate were held
today. He`s got two weeks to try to get his numbers up to try to scramble back
on the main stage.

It`s like each of these candidacies has just been cannon fodder for the Trump
phenomena. They`ve sort of proverbially shot themselves at Donald Trump. None of
them have hurt him at all. He`s doing better than ever, and they have all
suffered themselves quite significantly in the process.

And now we have a new contender, John Kasich has never been anything other than
a gutter ball in the polls all along but right now, his campaign is basically
devoting all of its energy to ads like this one against Donald Trump.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP, CAMPAIGN AD)

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Now the poor guy, you got to see this
guy. I don`t know what I said. I don`t remember.

TV ANCHOR: He appeared to mock a reporter with a disability.

TRUMP: He`s going I don`t remember. Maybe that`s what I said.

TV ANCHOR: That reporter he is talking about is Serge Kovaleski, who now works
with "The New York Times". As you can see right there, he suffers from a chronic
condition that impairs movement of his arm.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Trump says he mocking the reporter because he didn`t know
what the reporter looked like. But in truth, they have known each other
personally for years.

TRUMP: He`s going I don`t remember. Maybe that`s what I said.

(MUSIC)

SUBTITLE: Is someone like Donald Trump worthy of following in their footsteps?

Is he?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MADDOW: None of the other Republican candidates who have taken direct repeated
shots at Donald Trump have had any effect on his popularity at all.

I happen to think that John Kasich ad is really good. I can -- I mean, I`m only
imagining but I can imagine people who like Donald Trump potentially liking him
a little bit less when they see that ad, in part because the ad really says
nothing against Mr. Trump. It just shows him.

But what you that ad stems from, what Donald Trump was talking about when he
mocked the disability of that reporter which has now led to this ad, was this
issue around 9/11 and Donald Trump`s claims that he personally remembers seeing
thousands of Muslims in New Jersey specifically in Jersey City, New Jersey,
celebrating and dancing in the streets when the World Trade Center towers came
down. He says he saw that. And he has repeated that over and over and over again
as everybody else who knows what happened then says it didn`t happen.

But that you controversy is what Donald Trump was talking about when he starred
physically mocking that reporter. That what has led to what I think is the most
effective anti-Trump ad that anybody has run anywhere this year.

And weirdly enough that one issue, that one set of lies he keeps telling over
and over and over again about 9/11 and this imagined reaction of American
Muslims to 9/11, this has now become one issue that seems like it may be
sticking to Donald Trump. In a year when none of the old rules seem to apply and
none of his rivals for the nomination seem to getting anywhere near him for love
or money, even for lots and lots and lots of money, Jeb Bush, is this one issue
that is getting bigger and not smaller as Donald Trump continues to lead the
field?

Joining us now somebody doing original reporting on this Trump story about 9/11,
his assertion Muslims in New Jersey were celebrating by the thousands, MSNBC
political correspondent Steve Kornacki.

Steve, thank you.

STEVE KORNACKI, MSNBC POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: Sure. Happy to be here.

MADDOW: How has this story from Donald Trump evolved? Obviously, he`s sticking
to it and he`s getting some mixed forms of support from some other Republican
sources now.

KORNACKI: Yes. I mean, obviously, he`s sticking by it 100 percent. Rudy Giuliani
has been a pretty good ally of Donald Trump through the years came out today and
very -- seemed trying to be politely to put himself in disagreement with Trump
on this. He said it wasn`t thousands but there may have been dozens, maybe 10,
11, maybe 30, 40 of Muslims, he was saying in New York City after 9/11 who were
celebrating this.

MADDOW: Which again wasn`t what Trump claimed. Trump claimed it was thousands in
Jersey City --

(CROSSTALK)

KORNACKI: He it almost sounded like he was saying what Donald Trump was saying
had something to it, not as much as what he was saying and Giuliani offered a
specific anecdote. He talked about a candy store owner in New York City who
according to Giuliani, he and his family had been celebrating a local group of
teenagers were upset when they saw this. They came over and basically beat the
guy up.

And Giuliani said this in a way that made it sound like the guy had it coming.

I thought it was curious. So, we went and looked at all the news stories we
could find from September 2001 in New York City. We found one story -- a series
of stories about one incident involving a candy store owner who a group of
teenagers thought to be Muslim.

There`s a reporter who happened to be interviewing this candy store owner as
this happened. The reporter was interviewing him. He said a group of five
teenagers showed up. They asked the guy if he was a Muslim. The guy barely spoke
any English, didn`t seem to understand what was happening. Next thing you knew,
they knocked him out cold.

MADDOW: The teenagers attacked the store owner.

KORNACKI: The teenagers attacked him in front of the reporter, knocked him out.
His dentures were broken in half. There was blood on the floor. The teenagers
fled.

According to the reporter, they were never caught. They were never taken into
custody. There were no charges pressed.

Reporter told me he was absolutely certain this store owner had not been
celebrating or expressing any kind of glee about 9/11.

When we asked Giuliani`s people, we went to Giuliani`s office and said, look,
this is the only incident we can find that remotely matches what you`re
describing on the air, is this the incident? They said, no, it`s not this
incident. OK. What incident are you talking about?

MADDOW: A different candy store incident.

KORNACKI: We got a vague response that said he must have been told something
orally.

MADDOW: But no citation what it was.

KORNACKI: No, they said this one article might shed light on this. The article
was a "New York Post" column from September 14th, 2001 which is the same column
that Donald Trump`s campaign is now sending around to reporters and the author
of that column says basically that anecdotally had he heard about Arabs or
Palestinians or Egyptians celebrating in Patterson and parts of New Jersey. The
author of that column then has since said that he believes there might have been
dozens celebrating in the greater New York area but nothing on the scale.

MADDOW: But he didn`t see any of it. It was things had he heard about.

KORNACKI: Right.

MADDOW: He wrote a column about rumors he heard at the time.

KORNACKI: Exactly.

MADDOW: And the one piece about the candy store that you can find is actually
not about somebody celebrating 9/11 and being attacked because of it, but it
literally sounds like a hate crime, a guy who`s attacked for being perceived to
be a Muslim after 9/11.

KORNACKI: And the interesting thing we found in tracking that down, in looking
at all the key word searches we`re doing in the newspaper databases, we found
several stories from right after 9/11 in New York City, around New York City,
more than stories about Muslims in the streets celebrating we saw people being
targeted because they were Muslim or because they were suspected of being
Muslim.

There was another one, there was a Sikh individual who apparently was confused
people thought was a Muslim who was attacked. There were a number of stories
written in the days and weeks about that aspect of it which we`re not hearing
too much about it right now.

MADDOW: And the fears and efforts by responsible politicians to head off attacks
liking that is what prevented people from running off at the mouth with rumors
like Donald Trump is doing now even all these years later.

Steve, one last question on this. In terms of your political analysis of this,
is this 9/11 story with Donald Trump one of these things that folks in
mainstream politics think is going to hurt him but it`s not going to, or does
this potentially have some political peril for him?

KORNACKI: I -- it`s one of those things you say now he`s the front- runner for
the Republican nomination. I would agree with that. That`s where I put him.

MADDOW: Yes.

KORNACKI: If he were somehow to win the nomination, this is the kind of thing
that can be remembered and that can create an impression and that can haunt him
as the general election candidate. I think there are a number of things with
Donald Trump that could happen with that. But in terms of the Republican
nomination right now, I`m not convinced it hurts him in that race.

MADDOW: More than anything does.

MSNBC political correspondent, Steve Kornacki -- thank you. Your willingness to
pull that thread all the way and get to the bottom of that is really helpful.

KORNACKI: It`s interesting. Thanks.

MADDOW: Thanks, Steve.

All right. We`ll be right back. Stay with us.

MADDOW: So these are some live pictures we just got in or pictures actually just
from moments ago, an a couple minutes ago. We`ve been keeping an eye tonight on
Chicago.

This is an ongoing protest happening right now, Black Lives Matters outside
Chicago police headquarters. There was big and I think fairly unexpected news
out of Chicago today. The city`s top police officer there was fired today after
the officer involved shooting of an unarmed black teenager and the fallout
thereafter.

We`re going to have the latest from Chicago including an eye on those protests
just ahead. Stay with us.

MADDOW: We`ve got the latest on Chicago coming up in just a moment as I just
said. But President Obama has just arrived back home tonight in Washington. He
just got back from Paris where, of course, he was working on the big
international climate deal.

While he was in Paris working on the big international climate deal, leaving
behind a huge U.S. delegation there to negotiate America`s role in that
agreement, while that was all under way today, the Republican-led Congress was
working visibly to try to undermine our own president and our own government`s
negotiating position in those talks.

Congress today passed two bills directly aimed at undermining President Obama`s
Paris negotiations bills that would block the federal rules to reduce power
plant emissions in this country. Now, these votes in both the house and Senate
they were largely along party lines. Both of these things will be vetoed.
There`s really no question about that whatsoever.

But passing these things actually into law was never the point here, they were
timed specifically to try to cause President Obama maximum embarrassment in his
engagement with other countries as the leader of the United States.

The Republican congressman who led the effort on these bills today said, quote,
"We want the world to know that there is disagreement with the president on this
issue."

So, legislation specifically designed to undermine the president and hurt his
negotiating position with other world leaders while he was overseas involved in
those negotiations.

Your Congress at work, your American Congress at work.

We`ll be right back.

(COMMERICAL BREAK)

MADDOW: The head of the Chicago Police Department began today with an interview
early this morning on the local NBC affiliate in Chicago. For the past week in
Chicago, there`s really only been one big story. It`s been the police killing of
17-year-old Laquan McDonald who was shot 16 times by a single officer. That
shooting happened more than a year ago in October, 2014.

Last week, just hours before a court order was about to force the city to
release the dashcam video of that shooting, just hours before that, prosecutors
charged the officer with first degree murder in that case. It was more than a
year after the shooting, and it was just hours before they had to make public
the video of that shooting.

The lawyer for that officer whose named Jason Van Dyke says that he will fight
the charge vigorously. The officer was released from jail yesterday on a $1.5
million bond. But what that interviewer today on WMAQ wanted to talk about with
Chicago`s top police officer, what she wanted to ask the Chicago police
superintendent about this morning was this is document which we have obtained
tonight.

This is the preliminary press release that the Chicago Police Department put out
the day after Laquan McDonald was killed more than a year ago. It says, quote,
"Officers confronted the armed offender who refused to comply with orders to
drop the knife and copied to approach the officers."

So the official press release echoed the police union`s statement from the time
of the shooting saying Laquan McDonald had lunged at police, that he had posed a
serious and immediate threat, but that description which came first from the
police union and then from the police department, that description does not
match what is on that dashcam video.

I`m only going to play a few seconds of it here. I`m not going to show you the
whole thing. This is your chance to look away if you do not want to see it. If
you do watch, you can see here, these are the moments just before he is shot
with the first of 16 bullets from one officer.

This is what the Chicago police department decided to publicly describe as
Laquan McDonald continuing to approach the officers. That`s how they described
it. And despite having that tape that showed the opposite, they then went silent
about it for a year.

And so early this morning, that local NBC affiliate in Chicago asked the police
superintendent, what explained that? What explained the difference between what
they knew, what they had seen and what they told the public and let stay the
public story for more than a year. Watch.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

INTERVIEWER: There was a press release that was put out by your office a day
after the shooting that said ha this young man was going towards the police
officer. I assume that you okayed that press release to go out.

GARRY MCCARTHY, CHICAGO POLICE: Actually, I don`t review every single press
release but at the end of the day, I`m accountable.

INTERVIEWER: Exactly. So, when did you see the video we`re looking at right
here? When did you see that?

MCCARTHY: After the press release. I saw the video the next day. The initial
press release was mistaken, no two ways about it. I guess that`s my fault
because I`m accountable for it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MADDOW: The original press release was mistaken. But Chicago officials left that
mistaken impression out there for a year. They issued that preliminary press
release and never corrected it even after video of the shooting had been viewed
by everybody up to and including the police superintendent. They said the
investigation was on going and then they stopped talking. Even though they knew
that what was still out there as the last thing the public had been told about
this case was wrong, was wrong. No two ways about it.

Last week, after the state`s attorney for Cook County announced a murder charge
for the officer in that killing, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel stood with his
police superintendent, called for peace and calm and healing.

Today, it was a different story. Today, Mayor Emanuel fired that police
superintendent.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MAYOR RAHM EMANUEL, CHICAGO: This morning, I formally asked for his resignation.
Now is the time for fresh eyes and new leadership to confront the challenges the
department and our community and our city are facing as we go forward.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MADDOW: The mayor pointed out today that Laquan McDonald`s case is still being
investigated by the FBI and the Justice Department, but the scope of those
investigations may get a lot bigger. Tonight, the Illinois attorney general is
calling for the Department of Justice to step in and look at not just this one
case but look at the entire Chicago Police Department. The same way that the
justice department has looked at policing in Ferguson and Baltimore and
Cleveland and other cities.

The Illinois A.G. is asking the U.S. attorney general, Loretta Lynch, for a full
investigation into the patterns and practices of the Chicago PD, citing police
killings and allegations going back more than 15 years.

Joining us now is Nicole Gonzalez Van Cleve. She`s assistant professor at the
Department of Criminal Justice at Temple University and she`s done research on
the Chicago Cook County court system. She`s author of an upcoming book called
"Crook County: Racism and Injustice in America`s Criminal Courts."

Professor, thanks for being here.

NICOLE GONZALEZ VAN CLEVE, TEMPLE UNIV. ASST. PROF. OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE: Thank
you for having me.

MADDOW: Obviously it`s always a matter of political accountability when somebody
who holds a top job gets fired. Do you think that getting rid of this
superintendent will have an effect on how things work in the police department
and in law enforcement in Cook County?

VAN CLEVE: You know, when you fire the leadership, it makes all you have us feel
better in terms of accountability. We don`t want to see many of these leaders
Anita Alvarez, perhaps Rahm Emanuel and definitely the chief of police staying
in office after we see such a terrible abuse of power and a potential cover-up.

But as a sociologist, we know cultural change doesn`t come from -- in some ways
getting rid of the leadership. There is rank and file racism in the police
department, racism that I saw in a decade study of the Cook County court system,
and it goes all the way into the prosecution`s office, where I started back in
1997 and began researching it.

MADDOW: In a sociological study, especially a longitudinal one like that, what
are the manifestations of racism that you see?

VAN CLEVE: You know, again as a young person, prosecutors took me under their
wing. They refer to defendants as mopes which had all the stigmatizing meanings
as the "N" word. They paraded victims` photos with a sense of one-upmanship and
even my supervisor had framed a visual of an evidence photo where a black boy
had gotten shot by a store owner when he tried to rob the store.

And I thought, you know, what a culture that there`s such a lack of regard for
life. And in that will environment, it became easy to lie or hide moments of
egregious abuse by the police officers. They walked into the prosecutor`s office
and they often talked about defendants using blatant racism and prosecutors
never corrected them. They looked the other way. And they looked the other way
on shaded cases where police officers were altering you know arrest reports,
making sure the amount of drugs seized hit the felony limit and no one turned,
you know it, didn`t make anybody`s head turn.

MADDOW: In terms of the overall thesis of your book "Crook County" and the way
that this is playing out right now in Chicago, when you talk about those sort of
those cultural manifestations of racism and long- standing ingrained just ways
of doing business, can you tell what might change those cultural things? I mean,
obviously, the leadership is a political accountability moment. If this is
pervasive in the way you`re describing, what would fix it?

VAN CLEVE: One prosecutor in my study he described a case that was hauntingly
similar to Laquan McDonald`s case. There was somebody a defendant was shot. And
the police officer`s stories didn`t make sense. He had the wherewithal to try to
go to upper management and at every level of command, he was belittled.

At one point, he describes a top management throwing an ashtray at him. They
wouldn`t let him see Mayor Daley at the time. So, this is going back really far.

So, there needs to be a way where good prosecutors and good police officers can
whistle blow, and be protected.

MADDOW: That`s a policy matter. I mean, whistleblower encouragement and
protection is something there`s an art to it. There`s a policy art to it.

VAN CLEVE: Right, there`s no protections for those prosecutors. What you find is
they leave the office, completely discouraged. And a lot of them then become,
they become desensitized. They look the other way consistently even in the face
of these terrible miscarriages of justice.

MADDOW: Nicole Gonzalez Van Cleve, assistant professor in criminal justice at
Temple University, again, the forthcoming "Crook County: Racism and Injustice in
America`s criminal courts." Thank you for being here tonight.

We`re keeping an eye tonight on these protests underway now at Chicago police
headquarters. People in Chicago still very angry and very upset and very
emotional even with this news that the superintendent has been fired.

Thanks for being with us.

VAN CLEVE: Thank you.

MADDOW: We`ll be back. Stay with us.

MADDOW: June 19th, 5014, the middle of last summer, President Obama announced he
would send up to 300 U.S. soldiers back into Iraq, as military advisors. That
was June 19th.

Less than two weeks later, June 30th, the president sent a letter to Congress
deploying another 200 more troops to Iraq.

Six weeks later, August 14th, then Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel announced
another 130 troops would be sent to Iraq again as military advisors.

Two and a half weeks after that, September 2nd, White House Press Secretary Josh
Earnest they would be sending 350 more.

A week later, September 10th, President Obama gave a speech where he announced
another 475 U.S. troops that would be sent to support and train Iraqi and
Kurdish forces.

Less than a month after that, November 7th, the White House announced another
1500 more Americans into Iraq to train, advise and assist in the mission against
ISIS.

Then this summer, June 10th, 450 more military advisors announced in a statement
by White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest. That was all in Iraq. Then, October
30th, came the announcement by the White House that the president was
authorizing 50 Special Operations forces to deploy to Syria.

And now today, more. There are already about 3,500 U.S. troops in Iraq. You
know, added bit by bit, announcement by announcement, very quietly over all this
time. Now, it`s an additional deployment into Iraq and this time they`re calling
it a -- what`s the phrase they`re using? -- specialized expeditionary targeting
force, which as far as we know is a term that nobody`s ever used before.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ASH CARTER, DEFENSE SECRETARY: In full coordination with the government of Iraq,
we`re deploying a specialized expeditionary targeting force to assist Iraqi and
Kurdish Peshmerga forces and put even more pressure on ISIL. These special
operators will over time be able to conduct raids, free hostages, gather
intelligence and capture ISIL leaders. This is force will also be in a position
to conduct unilateral operations in Syria.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MADDOW: A specialized expeditionary targeting force. That is what Secretary of
Defense Ash Carter is calling this latest deployment, a new standing American
force based inside Iraq with the intention of them sometimes striking over the
border inside Syria.

But a Pentagon official is telling NBC News even though we don`t have direct
word from Ash Carter about the size of that force, an official tells NBC it`s
going to be something in the Barack Obama of 100 to 150 special operators.

So, this is the latest one, but it is just the latest one in what is now over a
year of escalation, a tacit, steady, undebated, undeclared expansion of this
U.S. war effort in Iraq and Syria. It is basically now a constant and steady
crescendo of escalation in this war, even though there`s been no debate, no
vote, and no political fight over it.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SUBTITLE: Today at the TRMS production meeting.

JULIA NUTTER, TRMS PRODUCER: So, it does look like they showed some racist and
obscene photos at the press conference.

MADDOW: Tell me more.

NUTTER: I`m not happy about it.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh, yes.

NUTTER: It`s not good.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It`s not good.

(LAUGHTER)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Like here`s that. It`s the wrong kind of racist. It`s not
going to help.

MADDOW: They showed these?

NUTTER: I mean I`ve seen them.

MADDOW: What are you looking at?

NUTTER: This is the press conference. They showed this.

SUBTITLE: That story is coming up.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MADDOW: Got another one.

In federal criminal court yesterday, a jury convicted the speaker of the New
York state assembly. The jury found the long time Democratic speaker guilty of
multiple corruption counts, including some nice stuff like extortion and money
laundering. The speaker faced seven criminal charges and for each of the seven,
the jury voted guilty.

Now, if you`re keeping track at home that makes three straight House speakers
criminally convicted in little more than a year. First, there was South
Carolina, and there was Rhode Island, now, we`ve got New York and we may have go
to go.

In Alabama, the House speaker was criminally indict last October and then got
re-elected after his indictment. Whoo-hoo! And he`s still serving as house
speaker while this case plays out. You go, Alabama. We`re looking at you next.

But when it comes to statewide officials under criminal indictment, one we`ve
been watching is Kathleen Kane of Pennsylvania. She`s the first Democrat and
first woman elected to the state`s top legal job. But Kathleen Kane now holds
the distinction of being the practicing attorney general of the state of
Pennsylvania without actually being a practicing attorney.

The back story as to how she ended up getting indicted and stripped of her law
license has to do was porn and racist and obscene e-mails, but not ones that
were hers. Kathleen Kane was criminally indicted for allegedly leaking grand
jury documents to try to embarrass her political opponents and then lying about
those leaks. Those documents concerned public officials and government employees
in Pennsylvania looking at porn and sending sexually he explicit and really,
really racist e-mails while at work using their work computers. She`s been
charged with leaking that embarrassing stuff.

And the way Kathleen Kane is fighting back, even after they indicted her is by
basically draping that dirty laundry all over Pennsylvania. As we predicted that
she would do, today at Philadelphia`s National Constitution Center where you can
explore America`s founding documents and gaze upon 42 bronze life sized
sculptures of the Founding Fathers. Today, Kathleen Kane projected a bunch of
hardcore pornography.

This is the video from the press event. We had to blur it this much to make it
presentable on basic cable. I should tell you that Kathleen Kane has appointed a
special administrator in this case, the former attorney general of the state of
Maryland. He says he plans to eventually release all of the thousands and
thousands of these sexually explicit, racists, misogynist, anti-gay e-mails
circulated by state officials on work time at their work computers.

So, there appears to be plenty more where this came from. The situation right
now in Pennsylvania is basically pure chaos.

Because the Pennsylvania attorney general is not an attorney anymore, nobody
knows for sure whether she really can appoint this special prosecutor she says
she`s appointed. Pennsylvania criminal suspects are saying the state`s charges
against them do not count. The state senate is moving ahead to try to remove
Kathleen Kane from office. The attorney general has this plan for defending
herself that we cannot show you on TV.

It is pure chaos. Fascinating, but it is pure pixelated chaos at this point.

MADDOW: So, one of the weirder hallmarks of the Obama era seem to be the endless
lineup of people trying and failing or trying and succeeding to get on to the
White House grounds where President Obama lives.

In March last year, a man climbed the White House fence in broad daylight. Got
arrested.

Later that summer, it was a toddler who didn`t jump the fence but was able to
squeeze right through it.

In September, another guy jumped the fence. That time, it triggered a lockdown.

Later that same month, there was another one, this time a guy not only jumped
the fence, he ran all the way across the north lawn, then ran inside the White
House. The man was armed with a life. He jumped the fence, made it all the way
across the lawn, made it through the north portico doors, was well into the
interior of the ground floor of the White House before he was finally taken down
by a Secret Service agent who had finished his shift and was on his way home for
the night.

It was after that that the Secret Service decided, yes, there`s a lot of things
wrong here, but maybe the White House fence itself could give us a little more
help in stopping these things from happening.

After that last incident where the guy ran into the White House, the Secret
Service and the Park Service installed these temporary bike racks around the
White House fence to try to deter people from getting near it, maybe? Are bike
racks an additional deterrent? It`s very hard to say.

But then this summer, the Secret Services and the National Park service
installed something now. They installed these temporary steel spikes. They
called them pencil protrusions. They screwed these pencil protrusions into the
top of the existing fence. They called it a removable anti-climb mechanism. So,
this intimidating bit of scenery here, this was our attempt at a mock-up of the
new and improved White House fence.

We wanted to understand was this just security theatre, right? Was this
something that would just have a visual effect, or could this materially affect
a person`s ability to get over the fence and on to the White House grounds?

So, we got a mock-up of a new addition to the fence made in foam. Yes, it lives
on our window sill now in our offices. We got the one made in foam. We also got
one made a scale model made in metal.

And these new spikes that they added, these pencil protrusion spikes, they
seemed to us like they would make it way harder to climb the White House fence.
It certainly makes it tougher to get a hand hold without hitting something
spiking. But that`s what they stalled at the actual White House this summer.

And since then, there`s been a noticeable quieting of people hoisting themselves
over the fence and making a beeline for the president`s house. And it was
apparently working, until Thanksgiving. Thanksgiving Day, approximately 2:45
p.m., the first family is enjoying turkey dinner, dude jump jumped over the new
and improved spiky fence.

He`s a 22-year-old guy, a college student from Stanford, Connecticut. We do not
yet what his motives were. His lawyer says he was a politically conscious young
man who was trying to, quote, "deliver a message". He was arrested. He was
ordered to get a mental health evaluation.

In terms of his penetration into the White House, though, he never made it close
into the actual building of the White House. He was caught by Secret Service
agents within moments of hitting the grass on the other side of the fence.

But the point here, the point, is that he appeared to have no problem of getting
over the fence itself even with the brand-new spikes. Look, here he is
straddling the fence. You can see he has a binder in his mouth. That`s
supposedly his own rewritten version of the Constitution.

You can also see that without too much trouble, he was able to scale the fence,
swing his leg over the fence and the new pencil protrusion spikes before landing
safely on the ground on the other side without any apparent holes being poked in
his person. And then he lifts his hands in the air just before he started
running towards the White House when he was then stop and arrested by the Secret
Service.

But the hands issue ends up being key to figuring out how he did it. Check out
this photo again. Here`s what court documents say the fence jumper had on him
when they detained him -- an American flag, which you can see on his back here,
the USB flash drive, the binder filled with paper and weight lifting gloves.

It appears he was actually able to grab hold of the new spikier spikes because
of his low-tech hand protection in the form of a cheap pair of padded weight
lifting gloves. Apparently, that`s all it took. All this extra spikey welded
security, right, a whole addition to the White House fence can apparently be
foiled with weight lifts gloves you can buy at the gym for 20 bucks.

National Park Service says the pencil protrusion spikes are not supposed to be
an end all-be all of the White House fence. They`re temporary thing until they
submit a design solution for some whole new fence this upcoming summer.

But whatever they come up with, let this be a lesson, right? To test a thing
against basic sporting goods technology that maybe even somebody busy writing
his own version of a Constitution and printing into a binder that he`s going to
jump the fence with, even somebody like that has time and opportunity to find
this kind of equipment at the local strip mall.

We thought it was so good, but he beat it with this.

That does it for us tonight. We`ll see you again tomorrow.

Now, it`s time for "THE LAST WORD WITH LAWRENCE O`DONNELL".

Good evening, Lawrence.

THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE
UPDATED.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120101cb.471

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SHOW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript

                       Copyright 2015 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                           Copyright 2015 MSNBC MSNBC


                               11 of 24 DOCUMENTS


                                     MSNBC

                            December 1, 2015 Tuesday

            SHOW: THE LAST WORD WITH LAWRENCE O`DONNELL 10:00 PM EST

The Last Word for December 1, 2015

BYLINE: Lawrence O`Donnell, Rachel Maddow

GUESTS: Seth Moulton, Kurt Andersen, Anthony Shaffer, Malcolm Nance, Seamus
Hughes, Michael Cohen, Leslie Hairston

SECTION: NEWS; International

LENGTH: 7507  words



HIGHLIGHT: U.S. to deploy more special ops troops to Iraq. President Obama says
U.S. ground troops won`t solve Syria conflict. Hillary Clinton rejects idea of
sending ground troops into Syria. Black Friday breaks record with 185,000 gun
background checks. New study finds ISIS followers in the U.S. are diverse and
young. Donald Trump continues controversial 9/11 comments. Donald Trump Knows
That The News Media Will Not Chase His Lies For Very Lon; The News Media Proved
To Donald Trump Years Ago That It Has No Capacity To Deal With His Lies; "Boston
Globe" Column Today Carries The Headline, "Donald Trump Is A Liar"; Chicago
Alderman Says That The Firing Of The Chicago`s Police Superintendent Is Not
Enough; Marco Rubio Versus Ted Cruz In The Hope That There Will Be A Collapse Of
The Trump Candidacy At Some Point Along The Line; Rubio-Backed Super Pac Ad
Against Ted Cruz; The U.S. Supreme Court Upheld A Judge`s Order To The City Of
Montgomery To Integrate Its Bus System; , Illinois Attorney General, Lisa
Madigan, Has Asked The U.S. Department Of Justice`s Civil Rights Division To
Investigate Whether Chicago Police Department Practices Violate The Constitution
And Federal Law; Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel Announced A New Task Force On Police
Accountability; Officer Van Dyke Is Charged With First-Degree Murder.


RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: For THE LAST WORD with Lawrence O`Donnell, good
evening Lawrence.

LAWRENCE O`DONNELL, MSNBC HOST: Good evening Rachel, thank you very much.

MADDOW: Indeed, thank you.

O`DONNELL: So, what does this mean to you when you hear it, a specialized
expeditionary targeting force?

Does that sound like troops on the ground because if it is, that`s what we`re
sending into Iraq and Syria.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ASHTON CARTER, SECRETARY OF DEFENSE: We`re at war.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Ramping up the fight against ISIS.

LESTER HOLT, NBC NEWS CORRESPONDENT: More American special operation forces will
be deployed in Iraq and Syria.

CARTER: We`ll over time be able to conduct raids, free hostages, gather
intelligence and capture ISIL leaders.

SEN. JOHN MCCAIN (R), ARIZONA: It`s a reaction to Paris. There is no strategy.

HILLARY CLINTON (D), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Thousands of combat troops like
some on the Republican --

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Right --

CLINTON: Side are recommending, and I think that should be a nonstarter.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Exactly two months from today are the Iowa caucuses.

GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE (R-NJ), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: It`s been entertaining
primary so far.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: To be honest, I just watch it for the music.

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Bing, bong, bing --

(LAUGHTER)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The Republican establishment candidates need to pick up the
pace if they hope to overtake the outsiders.

MICHAEL STEELE, FMR CHAIRMAN, REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE: They`re having many
heart attacks day-in-and-day-out, trying to figure out how the hell do we stop
this?

TRUMP: There`s only one way you get to the top and it`s all through Trump, let`s
face it.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Trump continues to take heat for his comments about Muslims
in New Jersey cheering 9/11.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think Trump is confusing cheering with screaming.

(LAUGHTER)

I also think he`s confusing bull -- with the truth.

(LAUGHTER)

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: America`s latest war policy seems to turn on the definition of ground
troops.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The truth is that ground troops,
U.S. troops, French troops could move ISIL out of Raqqah.

But unless we were prepared to permanently occupy a country like Syria, the only
way to bring about a true and lasting end to the civil war there, to end the
refugee flows and to defeat ISIL involves a political transition.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: That was the President today in Paris in an interview with Laura
Haim. It didn`t sound like the President is willing to commit ground troops to
fight the Islamic State.

But in a congressional hearing this morning, President Obama`s Secretary of
Defense said this --

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CARTER: In full coordination with the government of Iraq, we`re deploying a
specialized expeditionary targeting force to assist Iraqi and Kurdish Peshmerga
forces and put even more pressure on ISIL.

These special operators will over time be able to conduct raids, free hostages,
gather intelligence, and capture ISIL leaders. This force will also be in a
position to conduct unilateral operations in Syria.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: Defense officials tell Nbc News that the specialized expeditionary
targeting force that Secretary Carter was referring to would be between 100 and
200 special forces troops.

They are soldiers, they will be wearing boots and they will be on the ground.
Does that make them the proverbial boots on the ground?

Joining us now, Congressman Seth Moulton, a Democrat from Massachusetts, he
served four tours in Iraq as a Marine and as a member of the House Armed
Services Committee.

Congressman Moulton, when you heard that testimony this morning, what was your
reaction to it?

REP. SETH MOULTON (D), MASSACHUSETTS: Well, first of all, there`s no question
that these are combat troops. I was a military adviser myself in Iraq in 2004.

And when the Iraqi army unit that we were mentoring came under attack and
started to get overrun, my platoon went to their assistance and it started the
fiercest fighting of the war until that time; the battle of Mazar(ph).

So, there`s no question that this is a combat mission. My concern is that we
don`t have a bigger strategic political plan to ensure the long-term success of
whatever military action we take on the ground.

O`DONNELL: And when you listen to what the secretary says these soldiers will be
doing, conducting raids, freeing hostages, capturing Islamic State leaders, that
description means there will be casualties.

MOULTON: Absolutely. This is a risky mission. They will be very much in harm`s
way, and we`ve got to be prepared for that.

We also have to make sure that they are setup for success and that they have a
strategic goal that is achievable.

And that`s where I am most concerned at this point.

O`DONNELL: And what about mission creep here? This is -- as we know, this is the
way we went into Vietnam, with advisors, with small numbers of tactical
advisors, and then we were hundreds of thousands of troops in.

MOULTON: That`s right, and there`s no question that the same president who
promised to pull us out of Iraq has had to send troops back in just five years
later.

We started with 300 and now we`re up to 3,500 and adding more to that. So
there`s no question that there`s the risk of mission creep, I think we`re
already seeing it.

O`DONNELL: And so what at this point would you recommend to the President?

MOULTON: I think the President needs to have a very clear political plan that
underlies the military plan.

Because if you think about what happened when ISIS had this dramatic expansion
from Syria into western and then northern Iraq, they didn`t just defeat the
Iraqi army.

The Iraqi army put its weapons down and went home because it had lost faith in
the Iraqi government.

Well, that means it`s fundamentally a political problem in Iraq that has allowed
ISIS to spread so dramatically.

And you don`t fix Iraqi politics by just training Iraqi troops. And the same can
be said about Syria as well.

The only way to have long-term success against these extremists is to have a
plan to fill the political vacuum that they are occupying right now in the
Middle East.

The same type of political vacuum that led to terrorist training camps in
Afghanistan prior to 9/11. We`ve got to have that fundamental political plan in
place.

And then the military plan should fall on top of that. What I`m concerned about
is that we have some detailed military plans to defeat ISIS, but if we don`t
have a long-term political plan, then we could find ourselves back there for a
third time five years from now.

O`DONNELL: Joining the discussion now is Lieutenant Colonel Anthony Shaffer; a
senior fellow at the London Center for Policy Research and former army
intelligence officer.

Also joining us, Kurt Andersen, the host of award-winning public radio program
"Studio 360". And Kurt, we`re going to go to you first, civilian voice here with
no combat experience.

The echoes here of mission creep that we experienced in Vietnam are very strong.

KURT ANDERSEN, RADIO HOST: Sure, and you can say back in 1962, we only had 350
or several hundred most of whom were special ops people at the time.

It strikes me that certainly with this president and with the recent experience
of Iraq, the weariness of mission creep will be present.

I find it -- I mean, the Congressman`s point about the lack of a larger strategy
of which these 150 new special operators will be the tip of the spear is well
taken.

This frankly, as a civilian does not worry me that suddenly, oh, a year from
now, we`re going to have 5,000 more. I don`t see that.

Now, my question is, if this is provoked by the Paris attacks, which it probably
was in some sense, this does nothing about that.

And indeed, I would like to hear the military experts speak to the issue of
whether pushing ISIL, ISIS -- back in Syria and Iraq might actually cause them
to do these cheaper, higher cost benefit operations like they did in Paris.

O`DONNELL: Colonel Shaffer, take that --

LT. COL. ANTHONY SHAFFER (RET.), UNITED STATES ARMY RESERVE: Right --

O`DONNELL: Take that question.

SHAFFER: Well, they`re going to do them no matter what. If we push them back or
not, they`re already expeditionary and I think that`s one of the things that
General Dunford and Secretary Carter said today.

We have to approach this from a multi-regional perspective. Simply put, this
taskforce is going to attempt to work what they`re calling strategic effects.

And as Congressman Moulton pointed out, we don`t have a long-term political plan
that these strategic effects need to be tied into.

And with all due respect to the Congressman, Congress has not done its job to
debate and come to terms with what authorization a president has to conduct
these operations, and more importantly, what that plan is going to be.

We believe militarily, and I know from experience, this task force is going to
be focused just like a task force that I served on, was from a (INAUDIBLE) task
force 121, it`s the same basic mission said, it`s the same basic objectives.

It can be very effective. With that said, if we start winning, we have to figure
out how to seal the deal once we win.

And this is where we have to work with the Russians, we have to work with our
Kurdish partners, we have to work with the Iraqis who wish to work with us.

And those things are political, and that`s something that`s beyond the
Pentagon`s mission to do by itself.

O`DONNELL: President Obama will -- his presidency will not cover the period of
this military exercise. Let`s listen to what one of the candidates had to say
about this today, Hillary Clinton.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CLINTON: I agree with the President`s point that we`re not putting American
combat troops back into Syria or Iraq. We are not going to do that. This fight
--

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Under no circumstances --

CLINTON: Well --

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Would you not do that?

CLINTON: Well --

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Would this? --

CLINTON: At this point, I cannot conceive of any circumstances where I would
agree to do that. We don`t know yet how many special forces might be needed.

How many trainers and surveillance and enablers might be needed. But in terms of
thousands of combat troops like some on the Republican side --

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Right --

CLINTON: Are recommending, I think that should be a nonstarter.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: Congressman Moulton, Republicans are recommending or many Republicans
recommending a big troop commitment there, bigger, certainly.

And yet this Republican-controlled Congress refuses to vote to even authorize
military actions there. What is going on in Congress on this refusal to have a
vote?

MOULTON: Well, you`re absolutely right, and frankly, we`re abrogating our
duties. It`s our responsibility to make a decision about sending American troops
into harm`s way.

And we`ve frankly punted on that responsibility. We`re still operating on the
authorization for the use of military force that came right after 9/11.

And sending special forces into Syria is a far cry from taking out the terrorist
camps that caused the attacks on September 11th.

So, we do have a responsibility there. To Tony`s point, I will say that the
political side of this, the importance of having a political strategy, that is
partly the responsibility of the administration.

I mean, the administration has to articulate a clear military and political
strategy, and I think they`re only really doing half of that. But there`s no
question.

I mean, I -- as a member of Congress, I think we should be taking up this debate
and we should have a vote on authorizing the use of military force in Syria and
in Iraq.

O`DONNELL: And Kurt, the question of what we do there includes how long can we
hold on to whatever we gain there with this kind of military intervention.

And so, is there a politician who will stand up there and say I`m willing to
commit to minimum of ten years, holding this territory militarily that we gain
in this exercise?

ANDERSEN: Well, that`s been the problem all along, hasn`t it? That we are not as
a nation willing to occupy countries for the lengths of times that when the
British had an empire, they`re willing to do, we simply aren`t.

And so I hope for success here. I hope -- I was surprised frankly that the
description of the mission was not neutral, but rather we`re going to capture
ISIS leaders --

O`DONNELL: Aggressive --

ANDERSEN: We`re going to --

O`DONNELL: Yes --

ANDERSEN: Rescue hostages. There was -- there was -- it begged the question.
There was already the spectacular success implicit in the mere statement of the
brief, which frankly worried me a little bit.

O`DONNELL: Colonel Shaffer, what was your reaction to that -- to the specific
things that Ash Carter said this mission was about?

SHAFFER: Well, it`s very clear that one of the things we have lacked is the
ability to take advantage of strategic objectives and opportunities.

We have actually gone in and done a number of things which have not been
reported publicly. One of those which was public was the killing of Abu Sayyaf.

We have done other things, it`s been under the radar. I think this is an
acknowledgment of that mission, an expansion of it. Simply put, Lawrence, we can
defeat ISIS.

It`s going to be done, it can be done much more quickly than President Obama
stipulated, and especially with the Russians now in Syria.

They are motivating our side to do a lot more. So, I think again, we can defeat
ISIS, I think it`s a doable thing, I share Ash Carter and General Dunford`s
confidence in this.

But as we`ve all talked about, is, what do we do once we defeat ISIS. The
instability in that region is what has drawn ISIS to it. And ungoverned space
like we`ve seen in Libya is the magnet for terrorists.

So, we got to find a way to bring our allies in to settle up. It can`t be us, it
has to be the Arab, Kurdish and other allies bringing in to settle that peace.

O`DONNELL: Congressman Moulton, you get the last word on this.

MOULTON: Well, I think that`s an important point is, we don`t necessarily have
to have a massive American presence on the ground to hold this territory after
we militarily defeat ISIS.

It really should be a local force, including a lot of Sunnis. That`s a very
important component, and we`ve got to figure out how to achieve that goal.

The way Chairman Dunford put it is that we`ve learned that we need to stay
involved in Iraqi politics. We`ve got to be integrated into Iraqi politics.

And my last question to him today was, if we had stayed integrated in Iraqi
politics after the surge, after 2009, would we be in the -- in the mess that we
are, we find ourselves in now. And he said, no, we would not.

O`DONNELL: Well, that creates the follow-up question of were we welcome to stay
involved in Iraqi politics and to what extent were we welcomed to stay involved
in Iraqi politics?

MOULTON: No, frankly we weren`t. But look, the other alternative is now we have
to send troops back.

So, I think that we have to have much more aggressive diplomacy, much more
aggressive political involvement.

Because if we don`t, the alternative is putting young Americans into harm`s way
once again. And I`ll tell you, I went back to Iraq in February for the first
time since I took part in the surge.

And it was disheartening to say the least, to see so much of what we had fought
for and frankly achieved during the surge just completely squandered because we
weren`t able to hold the peace, to keep the peace.

O`DONNELL: Congressman Seth Moulton and Lieutenant Colonel Anthony Shaffer,
thank you both for joining us tonight. Coming up, the Islamic State supporters
in the United States.

A new study shows that the number of arrests and investigations of people in the
U.S. supporting the Islamic State is skyrocketing.

And a "Boston Globe" writer finally says what has to be said about Donald Trump.

O`DONNELL: This year, the Friday after Thanksgiving broke a shopping record that
we should not be proud of. The most background checks for the purchase of a gun.

The national instant criminal background check system processed 185,345 requests
on Friday, November 27th. The previous high for checks was just over 177,000 on
December 21st, 2012.

That was just seven days after the Sandy Hook School massacre. On the day after
Thanksgiving this year when America was stocking up on guns, one man with a gun
walked into the Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado Springs and murdered 3
people and wounded 9.

We`ll be right back.

O`DONNELL: There has been an unprecedented mobilization of Islamic State
supporters in the United States in the last year.

According to a new report, that report says 56 people have been arrested in the
United States for ISIS-related activity this year.

That is the largest number of terrorism-related arrests in a single year in the
United States since the 9/11 attacks.

According to that report, there are currently 900 active investigations about
the Islamic State sympathizers in all 50 states.

Arrests have been made in 21 states so far this year. Joining us now Seamus
Hughes, co-author of "The Report" and the Deputy Director of the Program on
Extremism at George Washington University.

Also with us, Malcolm Nance, a former counterterrorism intelligence officer,
combat veteran and author of "Defeating ISIS: Who They Are, How They Fight, What
They Believe".

Malcolm Nance, what is it about this report that is different from everything
you`ve seen in studying ISIS up to now?

MALCOLM NANCE, FORMER COUNTERTERRORISM INTELLIGENCE OFFICER & AUTHOR: Well, I
have to commend the George Washington University, I believe it`s a brilliant
report.

And what is most significant for the American public to understand is now that
we`ve taken this deep look at how the ISIS supporters, how and what we call
their fan boys, their base of operators in the United States communicate with
each other and how they support and radicalize themselves from within the
virtual world that they live in.

O`DONNELL: Seamus Hughes, what should we take from this report? I mean, if
there`s one way of looking at it is, gee, we know an awful lot about what ISIS
is trying to do here.

And you were able to obtain an awful lot of information that seems to show that
we`ve got them tracked. We kind of see what they`re up to.

SEAMUS HUGHES, DEPUTY DIRECTOR, PROGRAM ON EXTREMISM, GEORGE WASHINGTON
UNIVERSITY: Yes, so we looked at about 7,000 pages of legal documents to get a
sense of what a typical profile of it, ISIS recruiters looks like.

And it defies using analysis. They tend to be younger, so the average age is 26.
But one -- cases, they are 21 years or younger.

The FBI says that they have 900 active investigations in all 50 states, we found
arrests in at least 21 as you mentioned. I think what we`re seeing is law
enforcement is stretched a bit then, they`re triaging this.

This is unprecedented number of cases for them this year.

O`DONNELL: What about motivation, Seamus? Were you able to find what the
motivation is for joining, getting involved with ISIS here?

HUGHES: Yes, so humans are complex. They decide to do things for various
reasons. And we are able to talk to a number of people and look at court
documents, talked to family members of individuals who had joined groups in ISIS
from America and get a sense of, you know, how do they do this and why did they
decide to make this leap?

And to run a gamut, they wanted a sense of belonging, they wanted a sense to be
part of, you know, what they saw as so-called caliphate.

They saw the propaganda online, they thought they could be part of something
bigger than themselves.

O`DONNELL: And Malcolm Nance, what`s your sense of how good a grip American law
enforcement has on this in the United States?

NANCE: Well, I think it`s tenuous at best. Not just a week ago, I spoke to over
200 federal and state intelligence officers who were tasked specifically on this
mission.

And they were desperate for information. We have a lot of intelligence which
comes from national level intelligence collection agencies.

Which does get fed down through the FBI and out into the joint terrorism task
force. But, you know, there`s a great body of knowledge out there that`s missing
with regards to how does a street officer or how does a local county sheriff
have to approach somebody who may have been radicalized.

And I think this report will give them some insights unto that. But there`s a
great deal of work which needs to be done.

O`DONNELL: Seamus Hughes, it seems in your report that a certain amount of
what`s going on here is kind of youthful wanderings.

Youthful ideological wanderings and a certain amount of it will turn out to be
harmless. It will be a phase that some percentage of these people are going
through.

Any sense of how much of it is just that?

HUGHES: That`s exactly right, and that`s the problem when you look at these
issues. The 900 cases, you know, only a small percentage is actually going to
make that leap to violent act or cross that legal threshold.

So, what do law enforcement do to figure out, you know, who`s the real threat
and who`s not. You`re right when you say -- talk about youthful discretions.

When we watch -- and we had a team of researchers looking at 300 accounts of
Americans we saw on Twitter over six-month period, and we saw a real time
grooming of people.

So they were -- we saw a young convert in the Mid West who wanted to learn more
about her faith and she was going on Twitter to do that and ISIS spot her,
essentially groomed her through this and slowly brought her into the process.

You have these people that are looking for a sense of belonging and they`re
finding it in the echo chamber online.

O`DONNELL: And what is it about -- is there anything about their environment,
Seamus, the common denominators that you can link and family relationships or is
it -- or is it just as you say, there`s really quite a range of possibility in
who gets recruited?

HUGHES: Yes, I think that`s right. There`s a diversity of who gets recruited.
There`s a diversity in terms of the profile, you know, there are old, there are
young, there`re rich, there`re poor, the high school educated, the high school
kids, the college educated.

There`s also diversity in terms of their actual support of ISIS. We`ve seen
keyboard warriors; the guys that just push out propaganda on Twitter.

We also have seen cases like Abdullah Pizarro(ph) from Saint Louis who goes over
to Syria and becomes a mid level commander for ISIS. So, runs a gamut. There`s a
diversity of both the profile and their role in the organization.

O`DONNELL: Seamus Hughes and Malcolm Nance, thank you both for joining us
tonight --

HUGHES: Thank you --

O`DONNELL: I really appreciate it. Coming up, Donald Trump gets himself the
headline that he doesn`t want in today`s "Boston Globe".

O`DONNELL: Tonight, Donald Trump continued his campaign of lies about what
happened here on September 11th.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: Do you notice what`s happening in New Jersey? They`re now finding a lot
of people were saying yes, that did take place in New Jersey, right?

I wasn`t going to apologize. I wasn`t going to apologize.

(APPLAUSE)

A lot of things happened today where they were dancing and they were happy.
There were a lot of happy people over in New Jersey. And I saw it and a lot of
people saw it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: And that is what Donald Trump looks like when he`s lying. He, of
course, did not see anything that he just described and no one is coming forward
to support his lie.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: Do you notice what`s happening in New Jersey? They`re now finding a lot
of people are saying, yes, that did take place in New Jersey.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: No, they`re not finding anyone who says that that happened in New
Jersey. And if Donald Trump finds anyone who says that happened in New Jersey,
that person is welcome on this show to tell us exactly what that person pretends
to have seen.

Donald Trump knows that the news media will not chase his lies for very long.
They have proven that to him. He lied about President Obama`s birth certificate
for so long that the press gave up talking to him about it. He lied about
sending detectives to Hawaii to investigate the president`s birth.

He lied about that for so long that the press has permanently forgotten to ask
him what his detectives found in Hawaii. Those mythical detectives that, of
course, he never sent to Hawaii. The news media proved to Donald Trump years ago
that it has no capacity to deal with his lies, his speed of lies, his frequency
of lies.

They have proved to him that he can get away with any lie he wants to get away
with because he knows that most people in the news media are afraid to call a
lie, a lie. Mike Cohen is not one of them.

His "Boston Globe" column today carries the headline, "Donald Trump is a liar".
Joining us now is Michael Cohen, Columnist for the "Boston Globe" and back with
us Kurt Andersen. Michael, welcome -- Welcome to the small bandwagon in the
media --

MICHAEL COHEN, BOSTON GLOBE COLUMNIST: Thank you. Good to see you, again.

(LAUGHING)

O`DONNELL: -- that actually uses the word, "Lie and liar" when it comes to
Donald Trump. I take it. You got to the point where you just could not take it
anymore.

COHEN: That is, basically, what happened. I just said, "This is ridiculous. He
is lying, consistently lying." Not just about 9/11, but a number of things. And,
it is time to just say -- call it what it is. He is clearly a liar.

O`DONNELL: Kurt, no one in the American media has followed Donald Trump longer
than you have. You used to work at "Time" magazine, where they are not allowed
to call anyone a liar. This is an incredible challenge for the mainstream media.
They just cannot find the words to deal with this.

ANDERSEN: Well, because of the objective media, especially on the one hand and
the other. And, as you say, and as we were saying here, he is so prolific in his
lies, and by the way, always has been.

O`DONNELL: Always has been.

ANDERSEN: I talked to his bondholders in Atlantic City about whether they felt
lied to by Donald Trump, for instance. So, he has always been this way. It also
reminds me, he is part of a larger process of which your former boss, Daniel
Patrick Moynihan, once said, "Every man is entitled to his own opinions, but not
his own facts." That is -- Moynihan was saying that just before that was no
longer true.

O`DONNELL: Yes. Right.

ANDERSEN: And, Donald Trump is the ultimate kind of apotheosis of that. "No, I
am entitled to my own facts."

O`DONNELL: Yes, you know, Al Franken used the Moynihan quote in the senate a few
years ago. I think if any senator stood up there and said it now, most of them
would not understand what he just said.

(LAUGHING)

COHEN: I mean Trump has found the perfect political party, right? Because
basically this has become the new creed on the GOP, which is to consistently
stretch the truth and to go straight out to lying.

You know, we talk about Trump, but Carly Fiorina has probably told the most
pernicious lies in the entire election cycle about the Planned Parenthood
videos. And, even after it was point out through that what she was saying was
not true, that there was no video that depicting what she claims in those
videos, she still keeps saying it. She is still saying it now. This has become
the newest approach for republican politicians suggesting you lie over a period
of time--

O`DONNELL: You make the point to your column that there is one -- if you want to
talk about parties and lying that one party is way ahead of the other party on
lying. Let us look to John Kasich`s new ad about Donald Trump. Let us see this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: And, now the poor guy, you got to see this guy, "Ah, I do not know what I
said. Ah, I do not remember."

(END VIDEO CLIP)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JOHN BERMAN, CNN HOST OF "EARLY START" PROGRAM: He appeared to mock a reporter
with a disability.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: He is going like, "I do not remember. Oh, maybe that is what I said."

(END VIDEO CLIP)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BERMAN: That reporter he is talking about us Serge Kovalevsky, who now works for
"The New York Times." As you can see right there, he suffers from a chronic
condition that impairs movement of his arms.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE SPEAKER (voice-over): Trump says he was not mocking the
reporter because he did not know what the reporter looked like. But, in truth,
they have known each other personally for years.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: He is going like, "I do not remember. Oh, maybe that is what I said."

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: Kurt Andersen, do you expect that to work?

ANDERSEN: Well, one would expect -- you know, remember months ago when he made
his first career candidacy-killing gaffe when he spoke about John McCain. No, I
do not. He is -- people say he is Teflon. He is not exactly Teflon.

It is as though he is living in an alternate universe where the physics normal
-- of politics do not apply to him. And, he got -- frankly, he got a good
opponent in the democrats, which is to say Hillary Clinton, who is not the liar
that Donald Trump is.

However, part of her baggage is, "Oh, the Clintons, they shave everything so
close. What is the meaning of `It`." Not that she said that. But, that she is
the part of this, "Oh, the Clintons are kind of speedy." That is a good
candidate for him to be against because his base and the Republican Party can
say, "Yes, look at Hillary Clinton, she is a liar."

O`DONNELL: And, the -- by the way, when you talk to his supporter, the Trump
supporters, they all say, basically, what Kurt just said, which is basically,
all politicians are liars. Therefore, we do not care what lie our politician,
Donald Trump, told yesterday.

COHEN: Exactly. Or they will say, Hillary Clinton lies more and she is a bigger
liar. So, it all cancels each other out. The thing about Hillary to some extent,
she is actually kind of -- you know, she is a lawyer.

And, so, I think there is a part of her that tries to shade the truth and to be
as honest as she possibly can be without, you know, saying something is going to
be disparaging to her. And, that is her, her. I mean it makes her seem like she
is, you know -- she is cutting around the edges. But, like Trump --

O`DONNELL: But all politicians have done that at certain point.

COHEN: Of course. All politicians.

O`DONNELL: They have all talked to that way. They are all weasly. They do not
lie with such gusto.

COHEN: Right. Right. But, then we all do it. We all sort of tell lies. We all
sort of exaggerate our own personal stories. Anyone does. The politicians are no
different. Trump just does it with more gusto and more --

O`DONNELL: But, republican people -- republican strategists, officials, donors
are worried according to "The New York Times." They feel that the Trump
nomination would lead to an electoral wipeout, a sweeping defeat that could undo
some of the gains republicans have made in recent congressional, state and local
elections.

And, there, if true, Kurt, is that moment where once again, Hillary Clinton is
the luckiest politician in America. The Clintons have a way of being so lucky in
who their opponents are.

ANDERSEN: Well, he is not her opponent yet, but I think we are at the point
where we cannot just -- the republicans cannot just wish that away. We cannot
assume that away. Do a thought experiment.

You say, you have a leading republican candidate who is ahead of everybody, his
second place competitor by 8, 10, 12, 14 percent in the first two state and
nationally. And, he is conservative and he is a billionaire businessman, who can
fund his own campaign. That looks like a winner to me. That looks like a winner
of the nomination.

(LAUGHING)

O`DONNELL: All right, we are going to do that thought experiment during this
commercial. We are going to be right back.

(MUSIC PLAYING)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MARCO RUBIO, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I stand strongly on behalf of the
ability of this government to gather intelligence on our adversaries and our
enemies, especially terrorists, but other nation states. Those keep us safer.
And, there are republicans including Senator Cruz, who have voted to weaken
those programs. That is just a part of the record. It is nothing personal.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: Well, the fight is on, Marco Rubio versus Ted Cruz in the hope that
there will be a collapse of the Trump candidacy at some point along the line.
Let us look at this Rubio-backed Super PAC ad against Ted Cruz. Let us look at
this.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE SPEAKER: Paris is once again in mourning.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE SPEAKER (1): This was terrorism at its worst.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE SPEAKER (2): This is likely ISIS.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE ANNOUCER (voice-over): Our leaders must keep America safe.
But, when Ted Cruz had the chance to fight Barack Obama`s dangerously weak
anti-terror policies, he did not. Instead, Cruz voted to weaken America`s
ability to identify and hunt down terrorists. Cruz supported the bill that
expert said was crafted to hobble the gathering of electronic intelligence. Call
Ted Cruz. Tell him to stop leading from behind.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

O`DONNELL: And, Kurt, Ted Cruz hits Marco Rubio for supporting what he calls
Hillary Clinton`s policy on Libya. Also goes after him on immigration.

ANDERSEN: I do not see how foreign policy disputes between those two are going
to have any traction. I really do not. Rubio is -- has this -- he is the great
white hope of the establishment, yet he is -- and because of that in part, he
has great skepticism on the right. So, I just do not see this battle among the
republicans, unless Rand Paul suddenly surges, being fought on foreign policy
grounds.

O`DONNELL: And, Rubio gets hammered every day on conservative radio about his
immigration bill, which he abandoned. I mean, he did everything he could
possibly do to please those people, but they are not pleased.

COHEN: Yes, and I think that in a sense is because of his liability. The thing
about Cruz, Cruz has much more credibility, I think, among conservatives than
Rubio does. And, he has that sort of anti-establishment persona that Rubio
cannot possibly match.

If you look at this campaign, half of the electorates do not get it. The
electorate is going for Carson and Trump. It is an anti-establishment vote. And,
tonight, Cruz has been very smart. He is straddled being a Washington insider
but also being somebody every Washington insider hates.

O`DONNELL: Uh-huh.

COHEN: Being this sort of pose in the establishment. And, I think that gives him
a real advantage through going forward.

O`DONNELL: And, Rubio is going to have to get a win somewhere. Cruz is surging
in the latest Iowa poll. He might be able to take Iowa. You could see him taking
Iowa. Rubio in the New Hampshire polls and every other poll, including Florida,
Rubio is not there.

ANDERSEN: Well, you have Iowa, which Rubio almost, certainly. will not win.

O`DONNELL: Yes.

ANDERSEN: In New Hampshire, maybe, but not looking -- like I said -- and after
that, you have three weeks of mainly southern primaries that do not, to me, look
like great Rubio territory.

O`DONNELL: And, as you say, you know, it could be Trump all the way.

ANDERSEN: I think -- I have been saying it for a quite while --

O`DONNELL: If you had to bet tonight, is it Trump all the way?

ANDERSEN: If I had to bet simply on what is the best bet, I would say Trump,
yes.

COHEN: Yes, the best bet.

O`DONNELL: And, Michael Cohen, thanks for joining us. Kurt Andersen, thanks for
joining us, and thanks for telling me during the break that my presentation last
night about the K.I.N.D. Fund got you thinking about contributing to the fund.

ANDERSEN: Intending.

O`DONNELL: Intending. All the way to intending. OK. Now, we have just got to get
you to a credit card. All right, thank you very much, guys for joining us.
Coming up, Chicago Alderman joins us, who says that the firing of the Chicago`s
police superintendent is not enough.

(MUSIC PLAYING)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

STEVE MUSALI, MALAWI WORKERS: One day, Stanley is going to sit there at the desk
that I actually made. He will be able to tell them that, "This is my father`s
work."

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: That is Steve Musali, who you met on this program last night. He is
one of the workers in Malawi, who hopes that one day his son, Stanley, who is
now 2 years old, will sit at one of the desks that he makes, that he is making
in our factories in Malawi.

Steve builds the desks for the K.I.N.D. Fund, "Kids In Need of Desks." That is a
program we created in partnership with UNICEF five years ago to provide desks
for schoolchildren in Malawi. There is just about one hour left right now, a
little more than an hour left in giving Tuesday.

So, please, if you are still looking for some place to give, my recommendation
is once again the K.I.N.D. Fund. By contributing to K.I.N.D. Fund, you not only
provide desks for schoolchildren in Malawi, but you also help create jobs for
people like Steve, who makes those desks.

Steve uses his paycheck to support his wife and his son and he also helps pay
the tuition fees for his youngest sister to stay in high school. And, he sends
money home to his parents. He is able to do that. Thanks to the job he has,
building desks for the K.I.N.D. Fund.

One of the people who donated today is former Ohio State Senator Nina Turner,
who tweeted this, "Giving Tuesday. I donated to the K.I.N.D. Fund to provide
desks to students in Malawi."

If you would like to contribute to the K.I.N.D. Fund, you just go to the
Lastworddesks.MSNBC.com. And, if you are not cyber savvy or connected at the
moment, you can call 1-800-4-UNICEF.

Jay Lee tweeted, "I was a teacher in Malawi. Do not forget that through
K.I.N.D., you can donate, so girls can help go to school. I did." Thanks. In
Malawi only 7 percent of girls finish high school. That is half the rate of boys
who complete high school.

On future programs, I will introduce you to some of the girls, who are able to
stay in high school in Malawi. Thanks to your donations to the scholarship fund
that K.I.N.D. runs for girls.

If you cannot afford to give anything to us right now, you can still help by
tweeting or posting a link to the K.I.N.D. on your Facebook page. Judy Frazier
posted on Facebook today, "The K.I.N.D. Fund is amazing. Just bought a desk and
a year scholarship for a girl in the names of my two grandchildren."

And, my old favorite, Pat O`Brien tweeted, "My favorite new holiday charity,
K.I.N.D. Fund, making desks for kids who need them. Thank you, MSNBC." Thank
you, Pat O`Brien. I really appreciate it, Pat. And, thanks to all of you, who
donated today on giving Tuesday.

O`DONNELL: On this day, 60 years ago, Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat and
move to the back of a city bus in Montgomery, Alabama. She was arrested, taken
into custody and had to pose for this mug shot. Rosa Parks was fined $10 plus a
$4 court fee.

The Montgomery bus boycott to protest segregated seating on city buses started
four days later on December 5, 1955, and continued for just over a year. On
December 20, 1956, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld a judge`s order to the city of
Montgomery to integrate its bus system. The bus boycott ended the next day.

Rosa Parks boarded a Montgomery bus and road in the front of the bus. President
Obama sat on that bus at the Henry Ford Museum in Michigan in 2012. And, today,
the president released this statement.

"Like so many giants of her age, Rosa Parks is no longer with us, but her
lifetime of activism and her singular moment of courage continued to inspire us
today. Rosa Parks reminds us that there is always something we can do. It is
always within our power to make America better."

O`DONNELL: Tonight, Illinois Attorney General, Lisa Madigan, has asked the U.S.
Department of Justice`s civil rights division to investigate whether Chicago
police department practices violate the constitution and federal law.

In the statement Madigan said, "The shocking death of Laquan McDonald is the
latest strategy in our city that highlights serious questions about the use of
unlawful and excessive force by Chicago police officers and the lack of
accountability for such abuse.

Chicago cannot move ahead and rebuild trust between police and the community
without an outside independent investigation into its police department to
improve policing practices." That request comes the same day that the Chicago
Police Superintendent Gary McCarthy was fired.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

RAHM EMANUEL, (D) CHICAGO, MAYOR: Superintended McCarthy and began a discussion
on Sunday about the direction of the department and the undeniable fact that the
public trust and the leadership of the department has been shaken and eroded.

This morning, I formally asked for his resignation. Now, is the time for fresh
eyes and new leadership to confront the challenges the department and our
community and our city are facing as we go forward. I have asked First Deputy
John Escalante to serve as acting commissioner until the police force has
conduct a thorough search.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: In that press conference today, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel also
announced a new task force on police accountability. According to a statement
from the mayor`s office, the task force will review the police department`s
current system of accountability oversight and training and recommend reforms.

All of today`s developments come exactly one week after dash cam video was
released of the deadly shooting of Laquan McDonald by Police Officer Jason Van
Dyke. Officer Van Dyke is charged with first-degree murder. He was released on
bond last night.

Joining us now is Leslie Hairston. She is alderman for the 5th Ward of Chicago
and a former assistant attorney general for Illinois. Alderman Hairston, what do
you make of the attorney general`s request tonight for the U.S. Justice
Department to investigate this police department?

ALDERMAN LESLIE HAIRSTON, (D) 5TH WARD, CHICAGO: I agree with the attorney
general. As a matter of fact, last week, we had also asked for the same thing,
members of the black caucus and myself. And, I have been working with others to
hopefully get a petition together to -- petition the department of justice to
investigate.

O`DONNELL: When you and all the rest of the alderman unanimously voted to
compensate the family of $5 million before they even filed a civil lawsuit in
this case, had you all seen that dash cam video?

ALDERMAN HAIRSTON: No. We had not had an opportunity to see the video. And, the
corporation council is generally the practice. They appear before the committee
on finance and review the facts of the case and make a recommendation. In this
particular instance, the family and the corporation council had already reached
an agreement. And, that was the recommendation that was made to the city
council.

O`DONNELL: So, what facts were presented to the city council? Was the city
counselors told that the victim of this shooting was walking away from police?
Because at that time the public information in Chicago from the police
department and the police union was, that he was moving toward the police
officers and threatening the police officers.

ALDERMAN HAIRSTON: That was not what was stated at that meeting. I got a copy of
the transcript just to make sure, and there was language to the effect that
Laquan lunged at the police officer, which we now see from the video that has
been released that that was not the case.

O`DONNELL: So, even in presentation to reach a $5 million settlement with the
family, the story that the city was telling through the corporation council is
that he lunged towards the police officer?

ALDERMAN HAIRSTON: That is what I believe the transcript said, yes.

O`DONNELL: And, so, what was the -- what did the corporation council say that
indicated there should be a $5 million settlement in this? What did he say in
favor, in effect, of Laquan McDonald, why there would be a claim worthy of $5
million here?

ALDERMAN HAIRSTON: Well, I was not at that particular meeting, so I cannot say
what he said. I believe if I had been there, my questions would have been
different. But, I think that as with any negotiation and with corporation
council that the contents of the video were such that that if it went to a jury
trial that the city would be liable for a lot more and so that it was in the
best interest of the tax payers to settle the case and the family`s attorney
had, in fact, agreed.

O`DONNELL: Who do you think should run the Chicago Police Department now?

ALDERMAN HAIRSTON: I think there is some local people within the police
department that should be moved up, some young, fresh faces. We do not need to
recycling the old faces. There are systemic issues within the Chicago police
department. They did not just start today.

O`DONNELL: All right.

ALDERMAN HAIRSTON: And, so, we need to move forward on that.

O`DONNELL: That will have to be the "Last Word" for tonight. Alderman Leslie
Hairston, thank you very much for joining us. Chris Hayes is up next.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120101cb.474

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SHOW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript

                       Copyright 2015 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              Copyright 2015 MSNBC


                               12 of 24 DOCUMENTS


                                     MSNBC

                           December 2, 2015 Wednesday

                           SHOW: HARDBALL 5:00 PM EST

HARDBALL WITH CHRIS MATTHEWS for December 2, 2015

BYLINE: Chris Matthews, Tom Costello, Jacob Soboroff, Jim Cavanaugh, Clint Van
Zandt, Blake McCoy, Morgan Radford

GUESTS: Manny Gomez, Christina Wood, Eugene O`Donnell, Mark Glaze

SECTION: NEWS; International

LENGTH: 11059  words



HIGHLIGHT: MSNBC`s coverage of the mass shooting in San Bernardino, California.
Police in San Bernardino say one of the three shooters in the mass shooting
earlier in the day is dead and another still on the loose.


CHRIS MATTHEWS, MSNBC HOST: Well, good evening. I`m Chris Matthews in
Washington.

And here we are with the news, and it`s extraordinary. It`s an opportunity to
see the power of television tonight in a tragic situation where the TV camera --
we`re looking at it right now -- is actually ahead of the reporting. You`re
hearing the reporters think about what they think is going on here and we`re
watching and trying to decipher what`s going on.

You see a number of police cars there, three of them now surrounding a car, an
SUV, a dark SUV, which was the suspected vehicle all along this afternoon. And
they circled it.

And we`re trying to figure out now what kind of a standoff this is and what the
police officers, the SWAT team is worried about in terms of the wariness they`re
showing in approaching the vehicle.

They`re obviously very concerned that a possible -- either a person still alive
in the vehicle, or more likely, they`re worried about some sort of explosive
device that may be detonated while they go and approach it. They may fear that
their own approach may cause to it detonate because they`re being very wary in
their of approaching it.

We also saw what looked like a body being pulled by the car, from the car right
now, but we`re not sure right now, all this ahead of the actual reporting.
Anyway, here we are watching live picture news from San Bernardino, California.

In the hours since we saw the tragedy which cost the lives of 14 people and 14
were wounded -- let`s go now to the press conference for an update from the
police in San Bernardino.

Well, we`re watching the police officer -- and there she is, the police officer,
ready to give us the report. But we have been watching it, as I said, so
amazingly ahead of the actual human reporting of what`s going on.

But we`ll get a full update now, I believe, given what`s happened already.

SGT. VICKI CERVANTES, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE DEPARTMENT: Is everybody ready? OK,
again, my name is Sergeant Vicki Cervantes with the San Bernardino Police
Department.

As an update, officers that are working this active shooter case were doing
follow-up work when they located what appeared to be the suspects` vehicle.
Somehow, during that contact, shots were exchanged between the suspects and the
officers. One officer was injured. However, he was transported to a local
hospital, and it does not appear to be a life-threatening injury. I believe he
is a San Bernardino police officer.

Additionally, some suspects, or a suspect has been hit. I believe there is still
possibly a suspect outstanding. So it`s still, again, a very active, fluid
situation. We don`t have a lot of answers yet. They`re still trying to sort
through what they`ve encountered on the other end at the other scene.

Chief Burguan is going to be coming here at 4:45 with Sheriff McMahon (ph) and
again do a press conference so that you can speak to him directly and he can
update you with any information.

QUESTION: Vicki, what is the suspect count at this point?

CERVANTES: I`m sorry?

QUESTION: How many suspects are there?

CERVANTES: I don`t know. I believe that there are two at this time being dealt
with.

QUESTION: And is one on the run?

CERVANTES: If there were originally three suspects, there`s still possibly one
outstanding. But again, I don`t know.

QUESTION: Is the suspect who was hit dead?

CERVANTES: I don`t have that information.

QUESTION: Is there another suspect not hit in custody?

CERVANTES: I don`t have that information, either.

QUESTION: (INAUDIBLE)

CERVANTES: I don`t know. Their investigation just took them in that path.

QUESTION: (INAUDIBLE) the building entirely at this point (INAUDIBLE)

CERVANTES: I don`t know.

QUESTION: Did one of the suspects (INAUDIBLE) this morning and then return?

CERVANTES: I don`t know. That`s information I`ve not been given.

(CROSSTALK)

QUESTION: How many suspects are in custody?

CERVANTES: I don`t have any of those details. The chief will provide those at
4:45. He`s being briefed on that as we speak. We`re just speaking here because
we committed to talking to you on the hour, and I apologize we don`t have all of
the information.

QUESTION: (INAUDIBLE)

CERVANTES: That we don`t -- I don`t know.

QUESTION: The officer that was struck, can you tell us where the wound is
(INAUDIBLE)

CERVANTES: I don`t have that information, either. I just know it`s not
life-threatening.

QUESTION: Is the suspect dead?

CERVANTES: I don`t know if the suspect has died. We have not been given that.

QUESTION: How many have been hit? How many suspects have been hit?

CERVANTES: I couldn`t tell you that. But if you`re back here at 4:45, Chief
Burguan and Sheriff McMahon will be here and they will probably have many more
answers for you. Again, it`s very active. It`s not far from that -- or from
here. Stay here, and let`s be vigilant because there very well may be a suspect
still out here, and we all need to be careful.

QUESTION: But again, the officers came in contact with that SUV because they
were doing a follow-up investigation.

CERVANTES: That`s correct. It led them that way. Correct.

QUESTION: And they saw the vehicle.

QUESTION: (INAUDIBLE)

CERVANTES: I don`t know who fired first. I don`t know. All right. Again, at
4:45.

QUESTION: Thank you.

CERVANTES: Thank you.

MATTHEWS: We`re bringing in right now Jim Cavanaugh. He`s an MSNBC law
enforcement analyst. He`s a retired agent with the ATF.

Let me ask you, Jim -- we`re watching a couple things. We`ve been watching an
amazing bit of television here following this tragedy. We watched the police,
the SWAT units surround that car, approach it very warily for fear that the
suspect may still be alive inside, or that there may be some kind of a bomb set
that might explode.

Also now, we`re watching police going door to door with police dogs, looking for
another suspect, apparently. This is one of those rare times when television
cameras are so far ahead of the reporting.

What can you tell from this yourself?

JIM CAVANAUGH, MSNBC LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: You know, that`s exactly right. It
appears they`re searching for another suspect, at least one more. There`s been
reports of one wounded, one killed, one captured. But it sure looks like there`s
an active search going on.

But of course they`re trying to be thorough. We don`t know all the facts. We`re
probably not going to get any more on that until the chief of police talks again
in a few minutes, 45 minutes. But they sure have an active search that they
haven`t called off.

And like you say, Chris, the television cameras are showing it minute by minute,
all the citizens on the side of law enforcement calling in what they see, you
know, to spot a vehicle, to spot a person.

MATTHEWS: Right.

CAVANAUGH: So that`s probably giving them an edge to locate that SUV early on.

MATTHEWS: You know, it`s interesting. Just moments ago -- actually, about an
hour or two ago -- we heard that it was a dark SUV that was the escape vehicle,
if you will, for the three people, apparently three people, who committed these
crimes, the killing of 14 people, the wounding, shooting wounding of 14 others
at that development facility.

And now you`re finding out that although the police chief was very calm about
it, their surveillance was pretty darn good because they managed to track down
that vehicle lickety-split, that dark SUV. And they stopped it. They shot -- had
a shoot-out with it. And what we were able to see when the helicopter arrived
was we saw what looked to be a standoff situation.

But apparently, or it looks like now the suspect who was still in that car was
dead at this point. And they`re worried about something happening afterwards.

CAVANAUGH: Right. It looks like they might have stabilized it as far as anybody
in there shooting at them. They moved that ballistic shield up so they can get a
real close look on what`s in there. And they don`t appear at the moment to be
negotiating with anybody. So you know, they may just have a dead suspect in
there, or it could be empty. And they`re going to want to sweep it for explosive
devices, which would be the normal protocol.

It does look to be all shot up. It`s all shot up through the front glass, all
shot up. So probably, they did have -- were engaged with that vehicle somewhere
on that road, or around the corner, and they had a pretty good shoot-out wit.

I think probably called in a tip by citizens, or a patrol car because all the
patrol officers were out, looking, going on every street, you know. And if one
of those vehicles is creeping around like that, they`re going to spot it. And
the citizens are going to call it in. It`s all over the news. Everybody`s on
your side. And so you get a tip, Hey, there`s a black SUV, you know, going down
Fifth Street, and so you can center on it.

MATTHEWS: Well, you should have seen the scene over here a few minutes ago. Me
and the producers and the crew were all staring at the television from about two
inches away, trying to see what`s very hard to see from the helicopter even now
with the SWAT team still wandering -- being very wary there of what`s in that
vehicle. They`re still worried about something being detonated.

Let me get back to something you said a couple of hours ago when this story
first broke, this horror first occurred. The idea of three human beings coming
in with long guns and shooting it out with people they don`t even know, lots of
people they didn`t know -- without getting into the specific criminality here,
which is obviously a crime, what would motivate three people to go into what
could be a suicidal situation to commit a mass shooting?

CAVANAUGH: Right, Chris. You know, I would just add this to your thought. I
think it`s just spot on...

MATTHEWS: Well, it`s your thought, Jim. You jumped on that right away. This is
the oddest human behavior. You know, usually, if there`s an impulsive crime of
passion of some kind or there`s someone reacting in a fight scene, if you will,
in a bar, there`s a reaction by a human being. But when you have a situation
where the guy brings in two other people to share in the passion of the moment
to start killing people...

CAVANAUGH: That`s right. And here`s an important fact in this. They were seen
with masks, masks.

MATTHEWS: Right.

CAVANAUGH: That`s a reason for escape. You know, if you`re going somewhere to
commit the shooting and barricade and die in a blaze of glory, or be a martyr,
you`re not wearing a mask. When you wear a mask, there`s a reason for that. You
know, masks around your face are not comfortable. They`re not easy to breathe
through, you know, no matter what they are. They`re all sort of cumbersome. So
you have a reason for that.

And your reason is escape, probably in this case because we saw that they did
escape. So you got your black mass-killing uniform on, maybe some sort of
tactical or ballistic vest, your long guns. You have two confederates, and you
have masks. This is a real dedication for mass murder here.

MATTHEWS: And how many people sit around with, Oh, let`s go get the masks now
and go shoot a bunch of people. It`s extraordinary and terrible.

Anyway, MSNBC`s Jacob Soboroff -- he`s been with us before. Unfortunately, in a
situation like this, he is -- Jacob is right near the (INAUDIBLE) Jacob, what
you can see? Can you see what we`re looking at on television, these SWAT cars
surrounding this SUV, this dark SUV, which has been shot up?

JACOB SOBOROFF, MSNBC CORRESPONDENT: I can`t see those particular ones, Chris,
but I can see very similar ones in a different location. I see probably 10, 15
on the back of a heavily armored vehicle with what looks like someone in the
gunner position at the top of that vehicle at the intersection just a couple of
blocks away from what you`re looking at, at Davidson (ph) and Richardson (ph).
At first -- (INAUDIBLE) can hear the sirens.

MATTHEWS: Yes.

SOBOROFF: At first, it sounded like there was somebody potentially in a church
because an alarm went off. Then I saw them move around the block to where they
heard a dog barking. They`re obviously looking for something very aggressively
out here, Chris.

MATTHEWS: What do you know about the three people? Apparently, according to the
FBI -- we`re going to get more from Pete Williams, but we`ve been hearing that
one person is dead and one or two have been captured. That`s what we know.

SOBOROFF: From this location, we`re not hearing any of that information, Chris.
What we are seeing, though, is again, just to reiterate, what looks like a very
aggressive manhunt continuing, from my perspective, despite what you`re seeing
from the sky on television, at the position with the black SUV.

MATTHEWS: Do you see the patrolmen going door to door with police dogs?

SOBOROFF: Yes. Basically, this is a neighborhood with, you know, chain- link
fences, not quite picket fences but metal fences around these homes, citrus
fruits in the front of these houses. It`s an ordinary neighborhood.

And we`ve got sheriff`s deputies, very heavily armed tactical sheriff`s
officials and other law enforcement officials just as you said, quite literally
going door to door here, looking for -- they`re (INAUDIBLE) looking for someone,
Chris.

MATTHEWS: Well, hold on there. I want to bring in Mark Glaze, who`s sitting here
right with me patiently because you have a concern here. And what all these mass
shootings have in common is the shootings themselves, whether it`s something
along the lines of racial or it`s anger over school, kids having anger problems
at school. And it all comes down to the availability of guns and people willing
to get out there and shoot lots of people they don`t know.

MARK GLAZE, GUN CONTROL ADVOCATE: That`s right. You know, as you were saying,
there`s a lot we don`t know about the shooting and won`t for a while, but...

MATTHEWS: We know this.

GLAZE: But here`s...

MATTHEWS: Fourteen are dead and fourteen are wounded in a situation where three
men came in -- apparently, three men came in with masks on...

GLAZE: Right.

MATTHEWS: ... and something that might have been stimulated by something that
happened today.

GLAZE: You know, it recalls a little bit the Columbine mass shooting, which is
the last time I can remember that more than one deranged individual...

MATTHEWS: Student anger.

GLAZE: ... exactly -- was involved in a mass shooting. But here`s what we do
now. This is the 21st mass shooting in the United States in the past year, in a
great nation where you and I...

MATTHEWS: Define mass shooting so we know.

GLAZE: Four or more people are killed.

MATTHEWS: OK.

GLAZE: ... in a great country that we love to live in, where nevertheless, you
and I are 20 times more likely to be killed with a gun than people who live in
any other developed country.

We know how to fix it. Congress resolutely refuses to do it. But I think the
terrain is changing under their heels. These things are happening so often and
they`re so severe that I think the public attitudes are shifting, and
politicians are going to have to catch up or they`re going to have some tough
questions (INAUDIBLE)

MATTHEWS: Were you stunned, as an advocate, to hear Mike Huckabee say the
problem is that it was a gun-free zone...

GLAZE: Not really.

MATTHEWS: ... that this rehabilitation facility, the problem it had was there
weren`t enough armed people there to defend themselves? That was his argument.

GLAZE: You know, this is sort of a staple of the NRA, which is in the business
of raising money and selling guns. You know, schools are generally gun-free
zones.

MATTHEWS: So Planned Parenthood attendants and doctors are supposed to carry
guns when they perform surgeries.

GLAZE: And 1st grade teachers should have shoot-outs over the heads of our kids.
That`s the rationale of the NRA. But you know, there were guards at Columbine.
There were guards at Virginia Tech. We know that in a situation like this...

MATTHEWS: There was a policeman at the -- at the Planned Parenthood.

GLAZE: In a situation like this, very often, the perpetrators intend to commit,
you know, murder or suicide by cop. So whether or not -- whether or not there
are armed guards there, it`s not going to make any difference.

MATTHEWS: Thank you, Mark. Stay with us.

Let`s go back to the hunt right now because it is a hunt. We don`t know who is
still at large. Eugene O`Donnell is a former New York City police officer.

Thank you very much, Mr. O`Donnell. Tell us what you can about what these
pictures are telling us. Again, the great irony here that we`re seeing pictures
ahead of the reporting. We`re going get a press conference in a half hour now,
but we`re looking at -- we have been looking at what we thought was a standoff
with a number of SWAT teams all in vehicles, all surrounding an SUV, a dark SUV.
All the windows have been shot out. And now we`re watching people scrambling
around, patrolmen with police dogs looking for someone. What can you tell here?

GENE O`DONNELL, FMR. NYPD OFFICER: Well, I think the real concern -- there`s two
big concerns. One is the information coming out to the people in the field, and
that`s problematic in real time. There`s moving pieces here, and I`d be
concerned that the cops are not able to catch up with what`s happening.

And also, real concerned that ordinary cops with ordinary weapons are going to
encounter heavily armed people, and that`s a great concern in these situations.

And we`re talking about the need to control guns. Nobody can claim to be
pro-police and allow a country where these kind of people can walk in with these
weapons and literally, you`re not only terrorizing ordinary people, the police
themselves are at extraordinary risk in happening upon these guys, pulling them
over, doing a car stop. Their lives could be lost.

We saw that in Boston, by the way. That Boston cop -- that campus cop was
executed by those brothers, shot between the eyes. So it`s not only endangering
the American public, but the cops at this point.

And it`s changing policing. Police have -- we`ve had this argument about
militarization. Here you go. When you got a country where people can pick up
weapons at will, you`re going to have to equip the police. And that makes
policing change in a way that`s not good.

MATTHEWS: You know, you remind me that the police officers are often the
victims. In the case of John F. Kennedy assassination, we had an officer killed
within moments after the Kennedy assassination.

O`DONNELL: Planned Parenthood, right?

(CROSSTALK)

O`DONNELL: A cop who happened to be a pastor. You know, we talk about the
stereotype of policing, there`s a person who was killed defending people`s
rights, the legal rights there.

MATTHEWS: Let`s talk about the picture we`ve been watching. I mean, I have to
tell you, I`ve been mesmerized by the picture, which I tell you again,
astoundingly, is so far ahead of the actual reporting. We were watching three or
four SWAT cars, all -- armored personnel carriers, all standing around within
feet now of a car, which the suspected vehicle had been shot at. There may have
been somebody in there still, still there dead perhaps, or perhaps still alive.
And the cops were so careful in the way they approached that vehicle. They were
really wary.

O`DONNELL: Well, Jim Cavanaugh indicated, correctly, of course, the concern here
is to make sure there`s not explosives. These guys appear to come looking to
cause mass destruction and death, and they`re equipped to the teeth. And so
there has to be concern when they`re apprehending them.

And there`s no rush here. Bring the technology in. They have some very advanced,
sophisticated technology, telescopic technology that allows them to look into
that vehicle. There`s absolutely no rush. They may be tempted to rush because
there`s helicopters hovering overhead. They should take a deep breath, the
protection of their lives and try to get these guys, you know, into custody
without any further bloodshed is the top priority.

MATTHEWS: Well said. Anyway, NBC`s Tom Costello, my colleague, is here from the
newsroom with the latest on what we do know right now. Tom, thank you.

TOM COSTELLO, NBC CORRESPONDENT: Here`s where we stand right now, Chris. As
you`re looking at that split shot there, on the left, you`re looking at the
police who are looking for one suspect who remains at large.

There had been multiple reports throughout the San Bernardino area of a suspect
fitting descriptions of missing suspects. I mean, everybody in this area is on
alert and on edge, and they`re calling in anybody who is suspicious because San
Bernardino authorities tell us that one suspect is still at large.

On the right, you have that SUV which was involved in the shootout with the
police. We believe that there is perhaps one individual wounded inside that --
inside that SUV, and another individual who we believe is dead.

Now, I think what you`re going to see here is -- this is a videotape on the
right-hand side, and you`re going to see them pull somebody or something out of
the SUV. We believe that that is one suspect who was killed in a shoot-out with
police. Another individual wounded in a shoot-out with police we believe may
still be in that vehicle. And then we have on the left, the search for the third
suspect.

Police are very confident that that SUV, that black SUV is, in fact, the one
that they have been searching for for the last few hours that was involved in
the shooting at this community center at 11:30 or so Pacific time.

The initial reports -- the BOLO, as they say, the Be On the Look Out radio call
that went out from the San Bernardino authorities was to be on the lookout for a
black SUV. And as they were pursuing the course of their investigation, they
said that they were looking for specific follow-up opportunities, or they were
investigating information, looking for the suspects.

And that`s when they came across that SUV and engaged in a shoot-out, as you can
see, a violent shoot-out with police on that black SUV, that had its windows
blown out, and again, one individual we think dead, one wounded.

So now what we`re looking at -- again, bringing us back to what is happening
right now -- is we believe this ongoing search for that third suspect. And as
you can see, they`ve got the police Bearcat involved here. That`s the SWAT unit.
There are multiple SWAT teams in action right now, Chris, from various
jurisdictions across this entire region of southern California..

We have got multiple agencies contributing their SWAT apparatus, along with
their street cops, to find this missing suspect. And these individuals, of
course, have also been engaged in very active and heavy gunfire this afternoon.

This has been an extremely dangerous situation with mass killers on the streets
of Southern California. And now the search for one of them continues -- Chris.

MATTHEWS: Tom Costello, great reporting there.

We`re watching that picture right now of these SWAT teams around the car. They
may contain, as Tom pointed out, Tom Costello pointed out, may have a dead
person in it and a wounded person in it still, with another person out in the
streets somewhere. We`re watching -- we have been watching those patrolman out
there looking -- standing out there, looking for him with the help of dogs.

Anyways, NBC`s Blake McCoy is with us with from near the site of today`s
shooting.

Blake, what can you tell us?

BLAKE MCCOY, NBC CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Chris, I`m at the site of the original
shooting.

And I can tell you when all of this activity about two miles away started
occurring a little more than an hour ago, there was flurry of police activity.
Helicopters started taking off from the site of this original shooting and
heading to that location.

Right now, we`re getting the same information you are, one person dead in that
car, another person injured, and a search for a third suspect. And we have been
talking about the severe threat that these officers are under, which is why they
are in such heavy tactical gear. You have to keep in mind that the people at
this original shooting reported that those three shooters had heavy tactical
gear themselves on as well as long guns.

That`s in the word of police. They would not speculate on what type of weapons.
And we already have 17 people injured, 14 killed at this site. So they are being
very careful as they try to move in around those -- the potentially third
suspect who is at large right now.

And we have reported already that one police officer was injured in that
shoot-out about two miles away from here. The San Bernardino police officer,
we`re told, was taken to a hospital and is expected to be OK, Chris.

MATTHEWS: Well, thank you very much, NBC`s Blake McCoy.

Now let`s go to Manny Gomez. He is a retired FBI agent and a retired sergeant
with the NYPD.

What do you make of this? There has been a lot of confusion in the reporting, of
course, so far, because this is a live event that we`re ahead of on television
in many ways. We have been watching this standoff which may involve a dead
person being dragged from a car, one of the suspects, another suspect wounded
perhaps in that car still. And now we`re getting word that a third suspect is on
the loose. Police are chasing him on foot with the help of dogs, sniffing dogs.

And the question is, my God, this is one of the rare cases, I will say it for
the 100th time tonight, where we`re watching events occur before they`re getting
even minimally reported. What do we know about the police activity right now,
Mr. Gomez?

MANUEL GOMEZ, FORMER FBI AGENT: Well, the good news is that they have
apprehended or they have neutralized two out of the three.

The bad news is there is one at large. But I have every confidence that they
will shortly capture this individual. Once they have fully identified the first
two, they will probably be able to quickly determine who the third fugitive is
and bring him to justice or neutralize him either way in no short time.

The fact that we`re watching this live as it`s unfolding is truly unbelievable,
also the fact that this happened again. It seems to me that, although there are
instances throughout the world, it seems that in the U.S. it`s become an
epidemic that every other week we have some sort of active shooter situation.

MATTHEWS: But think about the -- well, the strangeness and the horror of this
combined, 14 people dead now who were alive this morning. They got up, brushed
their teeth, put on their clothes, came to work. In fact, they came to a
facility to probably improve themselves because they were in rehab of some kind,
autism people, people with all kinds of problems, trying to get better in their
lives, improve themselves physically.

And then they come and they`re dead, 14 dead, 14 wounded. And we don`t know how
bad their wounds are at this point. Three men apparently went in there with long
guns with masks on, three men sharing enough zealotry and evil, if you will, to
want to kill basically strangers out of what?

What is it? It`s a strange thing to put all that together. It doesn`t fit any of
the models, if you will, of what we have seen before in mass shootings.

GOMEZ: No, it doesn`t. Years ago, what we had was hostage situations. And we
became subject experts in dealing with hostage negotiations and trying to
release the hostages.

Now we have quickly learned in the last few years that the new active shooter
scenario is a scenario where these people are going in, and their only goal is
to kill as many people as possible before they kill themselves, get killed by
the police, or, in this case, successfully escape.

It`s very strange, indeed, the lack of respect for life that this type of
individuals have. And it`s also very strange that they planned an escape
strategy that succeeded. This is new. I hope that this does not feed into the
word that you used, zealotry, of other particular people that may be on the
fence, looking to jump in to this active shooter scenario that we have been
seeing in so many states in this country recently.

MATTHEWS: Well, thank you, Manny. Stay in there.

And let me go back to you Eugene O`Donnell.

And I guess question is, what made these three men think they could escape. They
did elude authorities for an hour or two, but they were picked up on the
highway. They didn`t have a secret Batcave to go or something. They were out on
the highway with a car that had been identified by the victims or the people
close to the victims. They said it was a dark SUV, not hard to pick out in a
helicopter surveillance.

EUGENE O`DONNELL, JOHN JAY COLLEGE OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE: Yes.

Most of these guys are dead-enders. They`re not -- they have no hope of really
getting away. And they generally don`t want to live either. They either are
killed by the police or killed by other people or kill themselves. So, this
is...

MATTHEWS: Well, what is with the masks?

O`DONNELL: Obviously, they didn`t want to get caught. But at the same time, they
must know -- you must know when you engage in a crime like this that there is an
extraordinarily high likelihood your life is going to -- it`s going to end with
your life being forfeited. They must know that.

MATTHEWS: Well, Gene, what about the idea that it`s always been historically a
fact that if you get into a barricade situation, you`re doomed? Once people have
surrounded you, it`s a matter of time and casualties. But you`re finished.

And these guys were basically putting themselves in a situation where all they
had was a vehicle, and they were going to shoot a whole bunch of people. They
killed 14. They wounded 14. And then they get in their car and they race away. I
don`t see the logic to that in terms of an escape plan.

O`DONNELL: We got to change the thinking about this, because it`s clearly
obvious now that -- in the old days, the cops showed up. They isolated and
contained the guy. They brought in the negotiators. And people were -- they had
nonviolent resolution.

This is a scary time in this country. There is every reason to believe this is
going to continue, especially with the weaponry that is so easily available to
these guys. And I don`t know how concerned they are about really getting away.
They`re certainly concerned about slaughtering innocent people and taking on the
police if they have to. That`s another worrying thing here, their willingness to
shoot it out if necessary with the police.

MATTHEWS: Why long guns? Why would three men -- they are men -- why would they
come into a closed situation, a conference room where there is some sort of
banquet going on in this development facility, helping people improve themselves
physically who have disabilities, and come in there with long guns?

Is that the only guns they could get their hands on? It seems to me, in that
situation, you would want -- you would want semiautomatic pistols. But why would
they come in with long guns in a situation like that?

O`DONNELL: It`s hard to say. There is so much derangement and so much ability --
that perfect storm, if you will of derangement, the ability to get guns, and I
think social media also, honestly, creates some really crazy ideas in the minds
of people.

And so that`s a lethal mix, when people are exchanging bizarre ideas and are
able to get these kinds of weapons. And there is a lot of aggrieved people out
there. Let`s be very clear about that. And the fact that an aggrieved person
with a perceived slight can pick up an assault weapon or pick up a heavy weapon
and go in and kill people, this is an extraordinary -- and it`s sort of a
watershed.

It`s been coming for a long time. There is every reason to believe this is going
to continue now.

MATTHEWS: Yes, I think that`s well said, given what we`re getting now, our
preliminary discussions, of the possibility that this was an impulsive attack
where somebody was offended by something and went out and got two other people
and came back and committed this horrific mass shooting.

Anyway, let`s go right -- thank you, Eugene O`Donnell.

Let`s go back to MSNBC`s Jacob Soboroff, who is the phone near where the police
are actually searching for that third suspect.

Thank you, Jacob.

JACOB SOBOROFF, MSNBC CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Chris.

So, again, you can hear, I`m sure, around me the sound of barking dogs in this
residential neighborhood, the choppers that are overhead right now. In my line
of sight, up and down a street that is totally sealed off, Richardson Street
here in San Bernardino, I see probably 20 or 30 heavily armed tactical SWAT
officers, again, one in one of these vehicles in what is essentially the gunner
position, at the top of the vehicle, sort of the hood of the vehicle, lifted up
with sitting outside.

You know, they`re going door to door here, Chris, looking for somebody. And it`s
not stopping any time soon.

MATTHEWS: Are their guns drawn?

SOBOROFF: We see them with their assault weapons sort of holstered, for lack of
a better term, in their hand, pointed down at the ground. But every one of the
officers that I see right now, and I count over 10, 15 at least, all have
assault weapons in their hands right now.

You know, you`re also seeing them, Chris, in the back of just regular pickup
trucks, driving up and down the streets, sitting in back of pickup trucks.
They`re using whatever vehicles they can at this moment to leave no stone
unturned in this residential neighborhood.

MATTHEWS: Are the people opening their doors?

SOBOROFF: People are -- we`re not seeing them go directly right now to anyone`s
doors. But what you do see is residents in the neighborhood coming out of their
homes, peering over the fences in front of their houses, looking at these law
enforcement officials.

Right now, it looks like, you know, the one group of officers I`m watching is
staging to do whatever their next move is going to be here in this neighborhood.

MATTHEWS: Well, tell us where your position is now. Are you where the car was
stopped, the SUV, the dark SUV that was the suspect`s vehicle, their escape
vehicle? Are you closer to the original crime scene?

SOBOROFF: No, I`m quite near there. In fact, I`m almost in between, I believe,
those two locations, although I would have to take another look to make sure.

But I`m at the intersection of what is called Richardson Street and Gould
Street. San Bernardino Avenue is several blocks to the north of me. The 10
Freeway, I would say, is a mile or less to the south of me. I would say the 10
Freeway is the main artery here in Southern California into and out of Los
Angeles. It goes all the way to Phoenix and beyond.

So this is an area where it is very, very heavily trafficked, Chris. But right
now on this street, there are not many people, certainly no cars at all going up
and down it.

MATTHEWS: Do we know whether all three suspects escaped in the suspected escape
vehicle or one was left behind? Because if one was not left behind, why are we
looking in the area where the original shooting occurred?

SOBOROFF: Well, it would certainly suggest that they are -- there is one suspect
that was not in that vehicle, although I obviously can`t confirm that for you,
Chris.

But they`re looking for somebody. They`re looking for somebody that obviously
they believe to be armed and dangerous. Otherwise, they wouldn`t be out here
looking essentially like they`re in a war zone.

MATTHEWS: We`re going to be getting -- for everybody watching right now, we`re
watching a live -- well, it`s a fugitive situation now. We`re chasing -- the
police are chasing after -- in San Bernardino -- are chasing after what may be
-- and this is all somewhat speculative -- the third suspect in a mass shooting
at a developmental facility there in San Bernardino, which is part of the great
inland empire, of course, in Southern California.

And we`re talking about the police action right now that we`re watching. We`re
watching the police cars, the black and white vehicles, out there on the car
right now. They`re all crunched together on the corner there. They have stopped
a vehicle they believe to be the escape vehicle. There may be a dead person, one
of the three suspects in that car. Or he may have been removed.

We think he might have been removed. We`re not sure. And, secondly, there is
another suspect who is apparently wounded somewhere. There is nearly no one in
actual custody right now, at least formal custody, with handcuffs on or on their
way to a prison hospital or whatever, a police hospital.

So, what we`re basically looking at is a live search for certainly for one of
the three suspects in this mass shooting, one of many mass shootings we have
suffered through in this country, most recently with the Planned Parenthood
facility in Colorado, and, of course, in Oregon more recently than that -- or
just before that, when it`s been a horrific season for us, five months, Mark
Glaze.

MARK GLAZE, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, EVERYTOWN FOR GUN SAFETY: That`s right.

MATTHEWS: Five months now of -- I`m sorry -- five mass shootings, major mass
shootings...

GLAZE: That`s right.

MATTHEWS: ... in just six months.

GLAZE: That`s right, and again, 21 this year, I think something like 150-
something since the Newtown mass shooting, when there was such hope in the
country that we might actually do something about this.

MATTHEWS: Is this accelerating?

GLAZE: It is accelerating.

It`s been accelerating, by some measures, since the year 2000 and has picked up
particularly over the last two or three years, probably because...

MATTHEWS: What is the factor?

GLAZE: It`s complicated, but a lot of sociologists believe there is a
significant copycat factor, especially when it has to do with troubled young
people who are in mass shootings, but also important to point out that mass
shootings do not tell the full story of gun violence in America; 80-something
people are killed with guns every day; 30-something of them are murders every
single day in this country.

They`re not mass shootings. They take place in our streets, in our homes, in
urban and rural areas. And we know how to stop it, tougher gun laws to keep guns
out of the hands of people who should not have them. But Congress and state
legislatures...

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: How many are, to use a crude term, professional shooters, professional
criminals, people who run drug businesses or rob banks, or whatever, and they
use the gun to carry out their business, if you will? And what percentage are
crimes are impulse and anger?

GLAZE: Hard to say because we don`t have great record-keeping on that. And the
NRA doesn`t like us to do research about the causes of gun mortality.

But a relatively small percentage of people are sort of recidivists who have
been in prison, who have committed serious crimes and are doing it again.

MATTHEWS: Really?

GLAZE: A lot of them are accidents and a lot of them are suicides.

And we actually know the sort of public policy solutions that would help with
both of those things. One of the biggest ones is background checks.

MATTHEWS: Let`s go to Blake McCoy with some real-life information right now at
the scene of today`s shooting -- Blake.

MCCOY: Well, as authorities scour that neighborhood right now looking for that
third possible suspect, we can tell you police have come us to and said, please
urge people in that neighborhood to stay inside.

Right now, they are aware that some people are coming out of their homes,
peering over walls to see what activity is going on. They say stay inside. This
third suspect is possibly armed and very dangerous. Police also did confirm for
us that two suspects are down. That`s their words. We don`t know if they`re
killed or injured -- two suspects down in that black SUV.

The third suspect, we`re told, was seen running from the SUV into the
neighborhood nearby. And that is why they have descended on that area, an army
of police looking for this person.

MATTHEWS: OK. So, we`re getting a clear picture right now. We will be right back
with you, sir.

Let`s go to Jacob Soboroff, who is at -- one the phone near where the police are
searching for the third suspect.

So, check me on this, Soboroff. Two suspects down, if you will, dead, one of
them case -- probably dead, maybe both dead, one still on the loose, but the one
who is on the loose escaped from that vehicle. So, all three of the suspects
escaped from the crime scene where they shot 14 people -- or killed 14 and
wounded 14 others. And they all escaped in that vehicle.

But once, when that vehicle was stopped, one of them made a run for it.

SOBOROFF: That`s what we`re hearing, Chris.

And, right now, I`m in a very resident neighborhood here, the intersection of
what Richardson and Gould. I would say, you can see behind me right now, very
heavily armed tactical law enforcement officers here.

I don`t know if you can see them from this location, but if I walk around here,
you will be able to see them (AUDIO GAP) but now you can see them there. Also,
on the roofs of their houses, Chris, people (AUDIO GAP) with homes in this
neighborhood, they`re out (AUDIO GAP) very, very (AUDIO GAP) that this situation
is going on. There is no way not to be.

MATTHEWS: That`s Jacob Soboroff.

Well, Jacob, we can`t hear you. We will have to get back to you, Jacob.

But that was interesting. We`re getting an update there that there were three
suspects altogether, two down or in custody and one on the loose.

Three men put on masks and arrived at a facility that treats people with
epilepsy and autism, just regular people with problems, with challenges, and
shot a bunch of them and killed 14 and shot another 14, just life`s -- these are
not big shots. These aren`t the leaders of our country or anything else. They`re
not assassinations. These are going after the people that are most vulnerable.

GLAZE: Right. And there is one reason.

MATTHEWS: What could be the motive? We are going to find this out.

GLAZE: Very hard to know the motive, but there is one reason that this happens
here so much more often than it does, say, in Great Britain, where the culture
is quite similar, where they watch American movies, they play American video
games, they`re not less mentally ill, their health care is not better.

But we have 20 to 25 times their gun murder rate. And the only difference is in
the way we control who has access to a gun.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: Here`s an example. And we all have sort of experiences with people
from Canada. All right?

But look at the cultural difference here. In this country, about 30 people per
million are killed by guns.

GLAZE: Right.

MATTHEWS: In Canada, it`s five.

GLAZE: That`s right.

MATTHEWS: Six to one.

GLAZE: It`s a pretty...

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: Is the culture that different?

GLAZE: It`s a pretty tough country up there.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: I know they`re kind of quiet up there sometimes. The Canadians who are
watching, they know what I`m talking about, but they are really tough when you
go to a hockey game. They`re tough people.

GLAZE: They`re tough people. And then they hunt.

MATTHEWS: But they don`t -- they don`t resort to guns.

GLAZE: They don`t resort to guns.

MATTHEWS: Killing people.

GLAZE: Because it`s simply not part of the culture, and because they regulate
guns and access to them much more strictly than we do, because they understand
there that you can be a hunter, you can have a gun in your house for
self-protection, but that doesn`t mean that we ought to open the floodgates, so
that we have what we have in this country today, which is more guns than we have
people, which makes it a much harder problem to solve.

MATTHEWS: Does this go back to our revolution? We`re revolutionary people, we
really don`t believe in government?

GLAZE: I think there -- what it goes to is that there are some people who
believe that we`re going to need another revolution some day.

MATTHEWS: To go the other way.

GLAZE: They cannot accept the fact that 1,500 ATF agents are not going to come
knocking on their door one day and give them Obamacare and take away their gun.

That is the real concern. There is an almost complete overlap between people who
really dislike and don`t trust the government and people who want not just a
gun, but lots and lots and guns. And the NRA stokes this paranoia as a way of
selling more of them.

MATTHEWS: Well, the irony is that you have the guns to protect you when they
come to get the guns.

GLAZE: That`s exactly right.

MATTHEWS: It`s very circular.

GLAZE: It is.

MATTHEWS: It justifies itself.

GLAZE: That`s right.

MATTHEWS: Anyway, we`re back here watching this thing.

And it`s still going on.

And this -- let`s go to Jim Cavanaugh.

Jim, your hunch has been very interesting so far from the beginning of this
developing story about the wonder, to use a positive word for a horrible
situation, of three men in masks with long guns going to a facility which treats
people with autism and epilepsy and all kinds of problems, trying to better
themselves every day, and shooting so many people, almost 30 people shot.

JAMES CAVANAUGH, FORMER ATF SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE: Yes.

Chris, you know, and you`re feeling that -- the awfulness of this crime. I mean,
we all feel it. And that also goes to the motivation. It`s deep- seated
motivation. What can get someone to do that in the instant case?

Now, you had mention of an "L.A. Times" reporter, Serrano. He is one of the
great journalists out West there. You know, he`s got sources. He said it might
be something kicked out of a meeting. It could be.

But to be able to do that, to come back, that would be a revenge motive. And,
you know, a deep-seated revenge motive, to come back and shoot all these people,
you know, to -- and to get others to help you -- now, like I say, you could have
family members.

We could all site a few cases where people, multiple actors have done this. So,
it`s not out of the realm of possibility. It`s just more the unusual. And --

MATTHEWS: By the way, how do they get the masks, the masks?

CAVANAUGH: Yes, the masks. And the full ballistic outfit and the rifles, you
know. Circling back around to see the crime scene maybe and they`re still in the
neighborhood. So, there is a whole lot of moving pieces to this that we just
don`t know. The chief may clear up some of those, Chris, in the next few
minutes.

But always the most interesting thing on these is motive, the human mind. What
makes people want to do these things. And we all want to study them to see that
we can stop them.

And, you know, it is just such an unusual target, unusual event, and a vicious,
vicious crime. I mean, we`re on the heels of Paris. We`re on the heels of
Planned Parenthood. You know, we`re seeing the world sort of unravel in this gun
violence thing for a lot of different reasons, a lot of different criminal
purposes. That`s just the world we live in.

But we`ve still got to try to break it down so we can do the best we can to stop
the next one.

MATTHEWS: Well, we`re just hearing now, our reporting is that the school
lockdown has ended. So that part of the drama has ended.

MSNBC`s Jacob Soboroff is back with us with a better voice now. He is near the
police who are searching for that third suspect.

This is the live danger here -- Jacob.

JACOB SOBOROFF, MSNBC CORRESPONDENT (via telephone): Chris, so I don`t know if
you can see my pictures right now. But the law enforcement officers, in fact
right here directly next to me are setting up police tape in one of the heavily
armed tactical sheriff`s deputies here told me to step back and, quote/unquote,
"take cover". I don`t know if that`s precautionary. Words to get me become or
get us media back.

But he did mention the word explosives. This is the word of a sheriff`s tactical
deputy to me here on the street. Again, I don`t know if that`s just a
precautionary language for this sheriff`s deputy to use to move us back here.
But that`s what they told us. And as you can see, if you can still see my
pictures.

MATTHEWS: Yes, I can.

SOBOROFF: They have an expanded perimeter here.

MATTHEWS: Are you close to the suspects` escape vehicle?

SOBOROFF: I would say we`re about -- and you can see there, Chris, that there is
a woman who is poking her head out. Her house now is cordoned off within the
police tape. And she is sort of looking out worriedly at the sheriff`s deputies,
tactical deputies are outside of her house. I`d say we`re in between where the
event took place this morning and the event that took place this afternoon where
the officers encountered this suspects` vehicle. That`s suspects plural.

MATTHEWS: Part of so many strange aspects, the suspect vehicle is so close to
where the crime scene occurred. It looked like all the hours that were available
to get away, they weren`t really exploited to get away. Is that right? Am I
right about that, Jacob?

SOBOROFF: Well, I can tell you again, Chris, that this manhunt is going on. You
know, with this walking distance, it might be a little bit of a walk, but
walking distance within the events of this morning. And that was at 11:00 this
morning Pacific Time. It`s now 4:45 Pacific Time here in the San Bernardino
County, Los Angeles area. And, you know, that is not far away from the events of
this morning.

MATTHEWS: Yes, striking. Let`s go back. Thank you. Hold on there, Jacob, and
keep taking the pictures.

Clint Van Zandt is an FBI profiler. He is an MSNBC analyst.

I`ve been waiting to hear from you, my colleague. Please tell us if you can
figure out what is going on here.

CLINT VAN ZANDT, MSNBC ANALYST: Well, what I think we need to understand, Chris,
is as soon as we get this third person in custody, and perhaps anybody who
supported them is what was the emotional glue that would enable three people to
bind this close. Now, you know, we always deal with this lone white nut who goes
in and shoots a place up and commits these terrible acts. We know this is the
worst mass shooting in America since Sandy Hook.

So, the question we`re asking is, you know, we understand, unfortunately, we
terribly understand in this country that one person can go in and commit a
terrible act like this. But what is the emotional glue that would bond three
people together that, you know, you would put your hands on top of each other
and say, OK, the three of us are going to go in. We`re going to commit an act of
mass murder. And we`re going to fight to the death.

Chris, of about 150 mass murders that the FBI has studied, only two of the 150
had more than one shooter. So there is still pieces that we don`t have of this
to understand. And we`re likely to find out there is more of a support system
perhaps than this last shooter that law enforcement`s desperately looking for
before day turns into night.

MATTHEWS: You know, I remind myself of a movie buff, as everyone knows now from
watching this program. All I can think about is the behavior of those brother
gangs from like "Shane", the Ryker gang.

VAN ZANDT: Sure.

MATTHEWS: They all come in and they all get killed. And they go in to kill. And
that is the kind of dramatic horror we`re looking here. Some strange strain of
anger that has brought them into this situation, it`s not impulsive. You don`t
wear masks, you don`t carry long guns on an impulsive situation. So, something
happen.

Let`s go now to the police with the latest official word from the San Bernardino
police at this press conference. Well, it`s coming up yet. It`s coming up soon.

It was going to happen at 4:45 their time, 7:45 our time back here in
Washington. We`re look at everybody getting ready for this kind of thing.

But I`ll tell you, let me good right now. Let me go to Blake McCoy.

McCoy, Blake McCoy, let me ask you what you have. We`re now pretty much zeroed
in on three suspects, one still at large.

BLAKE MCCOY, NBC NEWS: One still at large, two down in that vehicle. And Chris,
it`s really remarkable to think that all of this is taking place just a mile or
two away from the initial shooting that occurred just about a block away from me
here.

MATTHEWS: Yes.

MCCOY: Four hours later is when the suspects` vehicle was tracked down. And when
they started following it. Four hours. And those suspects were still in this
immediate area. You have to think officers thought they were long gone by then.
And when that suspect vehicle was found and they were cornered, officers
hightailed it over there, lights and sirens. Police helicopters took off from
this location and are now searching for that third suspect. We do know two are
down in that SUV. But remarkable to think that with that much time that passed,
that they were still in this area four hours later.

MATTHEWS: Well, the interesting thing is, the police were still on the lookout
for a dark SUV within walking distance. I would have thought they had given up,
that the perimeter would have been so wide at the point a couple of hours later
that they would have given up on a dragnet. But here they picked it up in a very
tight dragnet.

MCCOY: And you would have thought that with that much time they could have
switch vehicles or at least made it far outside of San Bernardino County and
they didn`t. They were right here. It will be interesting to see what the motive
was, who these three people were.

We do know 14 people killed, of course, 17 people injured. It appears this
happened at a community room, some sort of gathering place at that site that was
perhaps being rented out by other county health employees. That`s what we`re
hearing hath at this point. We`re still working to confirm all that information.

MATTHEWS: Well, thank you for that.

Again I want to remind everybody about the strangeness of this reporting
tonight. And if it seems uneven, let me explain. This is the first time we`ve
had television pictures because of a helicopter way ahead of the actual human
reporting. We`ve been trying to get information from the official sources, from
the authority there`s. Of course the San Bernardino police.

And we`re waiting for press conferences every hour or so, which we`re going to
have one any moment now. But of course we`ve been watching the action way ahead
of the reporting, and certainly way ahead of the official word. So we`re getting
this in stages. We`re seeing some of it before we know what we`re looking at.

We watched what looked to be a standoff for very many moments there, maybe an
hour. It turns out the standoff was police surrounding a car, the suspect
vehicle there. We`re watching it right now. The escape vehicle, if you will,
with apparently two people in it. One dead, one wounded. We believe as of now at
least with one of the suspects, the third having escaped somewhere into that
neighborhood, which another irony here, which is very much where the crime
occurred itself.

So they didn`t race to escape. They didn`t seek to get on to a freeway and head
for Mexico or anywhere else. They just stayed in the area with their long guns,
and maybe with their masks. So, this is a -- it`s a repellent situation to
report on with anyone.

Let me go to Manny Gomez in this. We have a moment or two.

Manny, how do you put this together?

MANNY GOMEZ, RETIRED FBI AGENT: -- obviously planned this escape. This wasn`t
something that was put together overnight. And lo and behold, they had plenty of
time to get away further. They had plenty of exit routes, whether it was south
to Mexico, east to Las Vegas. But they chose to stay in that nearby
neighborhood. We`ll probably find out in the not so far future why, but more
importantly we need to get that third probably very desperate --

MATTHEWS: Yes.

GOMEZ: -- fugitive that is still out there. We don`t know what he has in terms
of weaponry. Does he have any explosive devices? The first responders I`m sure
are making every effort to try to put that community in lockdown and to protect
the citizens in those homes.

But at the same time, they also have to protect themselves from this guy --

MATTHEWS: Yes.

GOMEZ: -- who is out there running amok.

MATTHEWS: Armed and dangerous would be an understatement.

Let`s go to NBC`s Morgan Radford who is outside the Loma Linda Hospital where
some of the victims of the shoot having been taken.

Morgan, give us a report on the victims.

MORGAN RADFORD, NBC NEWS: That`s right. We`re standing outside of Loma Linda
hospital. But, in fact, there was a bomb threat that was called in within the
past two hours, and it was just lifted within the past hour. And you can imagine
that`s in the middle of a very chaotic scene here, choppers leaving the hospital
and emergency vehicles coming in.

We actually spoke to a woman who`s guarding the family entrance to this
hospital. And she spoke to three or four members of different families, one of
whom was a young man who was just waiting to hear any news he could on his
uncle. So the families of the 17 victims that we now know of are waiting. And
officers from the hospital have said they do not expect any new victims to come
in tonight, but we did just see in the last hour, an officer who did suffer
nonlife-threatening injuries, but injuries related to today`s shooting, coming
into this hospital. So right now it`s a waiting game.

MATTHEWS: Did they get to the hospital -- it looks like they made to the
hospital fast enough to deal with trauma. Is that case? They don`t -- you`re not
hearing horrific stories of people dying in the hospital. Was that the case?
They got there fast enough to deal with the shock trauma?

RADFORD: That does appear to be the case, although it`s still a very fluid
situation. People are coming in, and now, you can probably even sirens behind me
now. So, it`s unclear exactly what state people were in when they arrived here
and what conditions their health was in, but we`re keeping an eye on it for you
right now.

MATTHEWS: Morgan, thank you for that. It sounds like not bad news at least from
the hospital, at least yet. Thank you so much for that reporting.

Let me go back to Jim Cavanaugh.

I think I`m going to leave you at any moment probably for the night. The hour is
getting near the end with it and we`re still hit with a situation of a lot of
information, but nothing coming together yet, Jim.

CAVANAUGH: Chris, you know, I think it`s interesting the point you`re discussing
with Clint, with Manny Gomez there, these guys were not far away. But, you know,
I don`t find it necessarily unusual in this kind of criminal behavior.

When we think guys want to escape and get far away, we`re usually thinking about
motives of greed and robberies and bank robberies and they`re going to have a
reason to get away. And a lot of these killers like this -- look at Paris,
Abaaoud there, even though that was a terrorist motive, we don`t know this will
be that, but he went back to the scene.

For 45 years in bomb and arson investigation, we talked about and taught and had
suspects return to the scene. They wanted to watch what was going on. And this
is also something we see in these shooters. These guys didn`t want to leave.
They want to see their work. They want to see the chaos. They want to see what`s
going on.

And I also don`t think they live very far away. I mean, I think they`re probably
people that live maybe in the county, maybe in the neighboring county, but
they`re not people who have traveled across the country for this activity.
They`re local people, and they thought they could, you know, go back and see the
chaos. And they`re not really afraid of a patrol officer encountering them,
because they believe they could kill and get away again.

So, you know, that`s kind of the criminal mind that`s taken over here in this
masked killing. It`s almost a bomber-type mentality, mass killing and they want
to see the chaos.

MATTHEWS: Let me get you to flesh that out.

Jim, thank you for that, because I always -- most of us grew up with the idea
the criminal returns to the scene of the crime, whether that`s legend or
reality, but you say there`s something to it. Would they have stuck around and
watched people suffer from the wounds?

CAVANAUGH: I think so. I think they want to see all the action. You know, we see
this in arsonists sometimes. They want to see the fire trucks screaming to the
scene, they want to see the blaze, they want to see the hospital. In this case,
think of the chaos there.

The fire engines, the paramedics, the people screaming, the news media, the
helicopters. They want to see all of this, Chris, because they did all of this.
And so, you know, it`s part of their whole operation.

Like I say, terrorists in Paris want to do it and even wants to film it with a
cell phone, maybe for later propaganda. That`s a little different twist on it,
but they do want to see their work and the chaos they`ve wrought on people.

MATTHEWS: Yes, top of the world, ma.

Anyway, we return right now to wait for the police update.

Right now we`re joined on the phone by Officer Christina Wood with the
California Highway Patrol.

Christina, thank you, officer, for joining us. Give us a sense of the police
action we`re watching now on television.

CHRISTINA WOOD, CALIFORNIA HIGHWAY PATROL (via telephone): Yes, thank you for
having me. You know, first as part of the California Highway Patrol, we want to
send our condolences and our heartfelt -- just, as you can tell, we`re still
active in this and still fluid and kind of all thinking in here. Our hearts go
out to the victims and their families, first and foremost. This is a very scary
situation and it`s a situation that we train for.

MATTHEWS: When you`re hunting for someone armed and dangerous, what`s the rules
of engagement? Shoot on sight or what?

WOOD: Stop the threat. You know, learning to engage an active shooter, we`re
trained to go towards the shooting, you know, we`re the one that goes towards it
while everyone else goes away. That`s what we`re here to do and that`s what we
did.

MATTHEWS: Did it surprise you that these suspects, two of them in custody, one
dead, of course, the other one wounded, apparently, in custody, two of them
down, altogether, one still at large, that they didn`t really try to get away.
They`re still in the area.

WOOD: You know, every situation is different. Every suspect is different, and in
this case, it seems that they stuck around. It`s not always the case, but we`re
always on our toes for that instance. In this case, it paid off.

MATTHEWS: What is your sense, as an officer confronting people with long guns,
as opposed to people with pistols? What do you make of it? The fact that all
these of these men had masks on, they committed this mass shooting. They tried
to kill 30 people. They killed 14. Certainly, bullets were fired at people
successfully up to 17 and 14, it`s 31 now.

What does it tell you that they had long guns and one of them may have one now?

WOOD: You know, obviously, the fact that they were -- the descriptions that we
go as far as long guns and maybe what they were wearing, you know, they were
prepared. This was planned. And it`s a scary world right now that we`re seeing
this more and more.

And while we hope we never have to respond to an active shooter incident, being
prepared through training as law enforcement ensures our response to diminish
the threat and to provide immediate life-saving assistance. That`s our whole
goal.

MATTHEWS: If you`re out there right now going door to door, looking for a
suspect in a mass shooting, a major mass shooting where 31 people were shot and
14 are dead already, would you assume that that suspect, that fugitive did not
want to get caught?

WOOD: Absolutely.

MATTHEWS: He did not want to be taken alive.

WOOD: He may have stayed in the area, but of course they don`t want to get
caught.

MATTHEWS: Or taken alive.

WOOD: That`s subjective, you know, who knows? We come across all sorts of
people, people who do suicide by cop or people who run from us. So, you never
know who`s going to come across.

MATTHEWS: What does suicide by cop mean?

WOOD: Well, unfortunately, some people, they put themselves in a situation
where, you know, it requires us to take action and sometimes that involves
lethal action. It`s never what we want. It`s not how we want it to end.

MATTHEWS: Thank you so much, Christina Wood of the California Highway Patrol.
Thank you for joining us.

We`ll go right now to the press conference and find out what we can officially
right now from the San Bernardino police officials, including the chief. It
keeps being delayed. I keep thinking we`re going into this, we`re not.

There you can see the cameras and the microphones are set there for all the
various organizations who are covering this. Of course, this is one of those
stories that has grabbed the nation`s attention. This is not a local story. It`s
become a pattern.

Mark? It`s a pattern now.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It`s an absolute pattern and one that`s been accelerating for
reasons that are complicated, except the fact that Congress refuses to do
anything about it. Here`s a way how it`s local.

MATTHEWS: Have you noticed the conservatives are all saying, we`re going to pray
for the victims, which is fine.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We`re all going to pray for the victims.

MATTHEWS: That`s not really their role.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Step two after you`re a policy maker after you give your
regards and sympathies is to actually do something about it. They know what to
do. We know what`s effective. They don`t do it, because they`re afraid of the
gun law.

But California has something interesting going on. They have pretty good gun
laws, but they could be better. The lieutenant governor of the state, Gavin
Newsom and the group the Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence are working to put
an initiative on the ballot that would significant tighten gun laws in ways that
may have been relevant to the shooting. We don`t know about this shooting, but
almost always when you have --

MATTHEWS: California is a state that doesn`t seem to me that intimidated by the
gun lobby. I mean, Feinstein`s been out there for years, tough.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And there`s also a tough and aggressive anti-gun control
group out there that does its best.

MATTHEWS: It`s not like Pennsylvania or Ohio.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It`s not, there are a few NRA members and more people who,
because they live in concentrated areas, want to do some good. But there`s going
to be a ballot initiative that might or might not have affected this. It`s going
to ban high capacity magazines, some of the kind that make mass shooting mass.

MATTHEWS: I`m glad we can do this. I`m glad you can get your platform tonight,
which you deserve in this horror. I mean, we`ve got to think about it when it
happens because we don`t think about it otherwise.

We`re expecting a live news conference with the police in San Bernardino,
California. They promised to update every hour, on the hour.

Right now, MSNBC`s coverage of the mass shooting continues with Chris Hayes.

THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE
UPDATED.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120201cb.461

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SHOW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript

                       Copyright 2015 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              Copyright 2015 MSNBC


                               13 of 24 DOCUMENTS


                                     MSNBC

                           December 2, 2015 Wednesday

                   SHOW: ALL IN with CHRIS HAYES 8:00 PM EST

ALL IN WITH CHRIS HAYES for December 2, 2015

BYLINE: Chris Hayes, Blake McCoy, Tom Costello, Jacob Soboroff, Pete Williams,
Trymaine Lee, Morgan Radford

GUESTS: Shannon Watts, Jim Cavanaugh, Al Shaprton

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 10306  words



HIGHLIGHT: MSNBC`s coverage of the mass shooting in San Bernardino, California.


CHRIS HAYES, MSNBC HOST: Thank you, Chris.

All right. It is 8:00 p.m. here in the East, 5:00 p.m. on the West.

And if you`re just joining us, if you`ve been looking at the Internet today, you
know there`s been a horrific mass shooting. It`s the worst mass shooting in this
country since Sandy Hook that killed more than two dozen children in a school.

That mass shooting today taking place at the Inland Regional Center. It`s a
Social Security nonprofit with over 600 employees. It serves 35,000 people. Many
of them with developmental challenges.

It appears the target of the mass shooting was a conference center inside that
facility in San Bernardino, a conference center that had been rented out for the
day to the county Department of Health, which was holding, essentially, a
Christmas banquet.

Reports that as many as 200 people were in that room, around 11:20 local time,
when we are told three gunmen burst into that room and started firing with long
guns. Some reports say they had masks on. Others indicate they may have been
wearing, though that is as yet to be confirmed, some sort of bulletproof vests
or armor.

The three gunmen managed to escape what soon became an absolutely chaotic scene.
First responders coming to the facility and offering triage right there out in
front of the facility, and right now, the latest is that three of those
suspects, one has been killed by police in a shoot-out in an SUV, one was
possibly shot by police, but is in custody, and a third remains at large.

That live helicopter shot you`re looking at right now as it hovers over San
Bernardino, California, is capturing an ongoing manhunt as police continue to
search the area, not very far from the scene of this crime, for that final, we
believe final, remaining suspect.

Again, at this hour, one suspect is at large. One suspect was shot and is in
police custody. And one suspect, we believe, is deceased.

Earlier, the police encountered an SUV, you see that on the right, a shoot-out
began between the police and the men inside that vehicle. One of the suspects,
it appears, was able to get out of that vehicle and flee. Two remain behind. One
of them dying inside the vehicle.

The squad teams that were calling on to the scene incredibly careful with how
they went about extracting that body, worried about possible booby traps.

Early in the day, as chaotic reports streamed in, as dozens and hundreds of
employees were evacuated to the nearby golf course. We saw pictures of people
being searched, their hands above their head. We saw people lying on the ground
being tended to with gunshot wounds.

Amidst all this chaos, rumors begun to circulate with reports of multiple
gunmen. Often, often in these cases, reports of multiple gunmen proved to be
incorrect. There`s a great deal of skepticism and weariness that it could, in
fact, be multiple gunmen, but as of this hour, it does appear that there were,
in fact, three gunmen, one of whom remains at large and you can see some of the
law enforcement officials from San Bernardino, now moving out through
residential areas, in back alleys. We saw them searching yards and houses.

The county sheriff`s office has instructed residents to remain inside with their
doors closed.

Joining me now, I want to go to NBC`s Blake McCoy, who is at the scene of
today`s shooting.

And, Blake, what is the latest there?

BLAKE MCCOY, NBC NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Well, Chris, we`re only about a mile or two
away from where that very active search is underway right now. You can see the
precaution as those law enforcement officers are taking in heavy armor, and
they`re moving slowly and methodically through that neighborhood with dogs
sniffing, leading the way in the search for this third suspect.

And they`re being very careful because the reports we have are these three
suspects who opened fire in this regional center were, themselves, in tactical
gear and opened fire with what we`re told are long guns -- law enforcement not
speculating on what type of guns, but long guns. And 14 people killed, 17 people
injured.

It was about four hours later, after the shooting, that that SUV was tracked
down. Officers had reports that the suspects got away in a black SUV. They were
able to get an ID on that vehicle and it`s only a mile or two away from where we
are right now.

Officers from across the region were already here, responding to the shooting at
the building about two blocks behind me. They all hightailed their way over to
that neighborhood. That`s where the shoot-out happened with that SUV. It is
riddled with bullets.

The official word from officers is two suspects in that vehicle are down. That`s
their words. We don`t know if one was killed, both were killed, but two down.
And they did see one then run off into the neighborhood. And that`s why they
have that neighborhood on lockdown, warning residents to stay inside, while they
try to track down this third suspect.

HAYES: Blake McCoy, thank you very much. We`ll be checking back in with you.

I want to let viewers know, in that corner there, if we can bring up the shot of
the live press conference, we`ve been getting updates periodically throughout
the day from local officials in San Bernardino about things. We are awaiting a
police press conference just in a few minutes and are hoping, expecting some
more concrete information -- concrete information today has been very hard to
come by, partly because this has remained, until this hour, essentially an
active shooter situation.

I mean, we have had a shooting followed by the three suspects managing to escape
the scene, followed by those suspects being encountered by law enforcement,
followed to now a manhunt for the lone remaining suspect. And everything that
has happened today has been baffling and confusing and chaotic and has not gone
along with any preordained scripts. I mean, the target makes no sense. The three
individuals working together, all of it right now, at this hour, a just complete
horrifying mystery.

NBC`s Tom Costello has been following the story from the newsroom in Washington.

And, Tom, are we closer to making sense of what is going on here?

TOM COSTELLO, NBC NEWS CORRESPONDENT: I think we`re getting a better sense. Law
enforcement authorities, at least on the federal end of things, are getting a
better sense of how this may have gone down, but not all of it, I would tell
you, do we have to the point that we can report it. I think what we can say here
is that law enforcement authorities here in Washington believe that that
building, the inland regional center, which as you know, was a community center
of sorts for people with developmental disabilities, that that building itself
was targeted because of the people were inside at the time.

In other words, this was not a random choice. This was on purpose. And that it
is highly unlikely that this was any sort of jihadi type of terrorism. That,
instead, what we may be looking at is something where individuals within that
building for some reason were targeted. But beyond that, we`re waiting for more
solid information from federal authorities.

Throughout the day, as you know, there`s been this concern that we may be
witnessing some sort of a domestic ISIS terror attack. I`ll tell you, the
thinking in Washington from senior law enforcement officials is that that is
unlikely, that this is something perhaps more personal, but we don`t have
anymore information than that. We`ll get it to you as soon as we do.

But the fact that this neighborhood now is entering into the nighttime hours --
imagine if that was your family, your children, your spouse in one of those
homes tonight, when you got a mass killer on the loose, who has already killed
14 people, 17 people wounded, and he is in your neighborhood. Imagine the terror
that you would be experiencing right now, with these armed units of police
patrol cars, SWAT teams, helicopters overhead, cruising and searching for this
suspect.

And then imagine the anxiety on the ground if you`re in charge of these SWAT
teams, helicopters overhead and this roving police unit, you want to find this
guy before he takes somebody hostage or does -- or inflicts even more pain or
injures or kills anybody else.

So, it is a very, very high-stakes game that we`re witnessing right now. This is
not Hollywood. This is real life, life and death, in which people have died
already. And a masked killer is on the loose right now -- Chris.

HAYES: All right. Tom Costello, thank you for that. I want to reemphasize
something Tom said because in the proximity, of course, to the mass murder in
Paris and, of course, in the times we live in, immediate thoughts about whether
some jihadi group could be responsible for this. There is no definitive
reporting in either direction, but we want to reiterate what Tom said, which is
the thinking among law enforcement is that it is unlikely to prove to be jihadi
terrorism.

A quote earlier today from a law enforcement official from San Bernardino who
basically said, this is no indication of, I think we believe he said, the
traditional type of terrorism you may be imagining. I think his way of
communicating there was no indication, and I think there is now indication
against, though nothing definitive this may be this work of some kind of jihadi
cell or some kind of jihadi group.

The motivation for shooting up a Christmas banquet in a midst of a nonprofit
surgeon social service agency in a city in the Inland Empire in California, in
the poorest city of its size in all of California, the motivation for this
horrific act remains completely, completely opaque at this moment. It`s part of
what is both so baffling and enraging and terrifying as we go into the night
local time with that manhunt still active.

I want to bring in NBC`s Jacob Soboroff who is on the scene.

And, Jacob, can you give me a sense of what it looks like there as police are
left to essentially search block by block for this last remaining suspect.

JACOB SOBOROFF, NBC NEWS: That`s exactly what`s going on, Chris. This
neighborhood, this local residential neighborhood which a local resident just
told me just second ago, is usually pretty mellow is completely shut down by law
enforcement personnel. These sheriff`s deputies, I just heard them tell a
resident who was trying to drive home, she can`t drive home but she can park her
car and walk down the block, a block down in that direction, which is east from
where we are, sheriff`s deputies told me to step back, because they`re expecting
even explosives -- potential explosives to be found and they said, find a place
where you can take shelter.

So I`ve come back about a block away from where we were originally stationed. We
saw heavily, heavily armed tactical officers, like we`ve been seeing from the
sky all day long. The position I`m in, Chris, is about directly in the middle of
the Inland Regional Center where the shooting happened this morning and where
the standoff with the suspects happened later on this afternoon. And as you
said, it is an all points bulletin here for the remaining suspect if there is
one.

HAYES: All right. Jacob, thank you.

I want to touch on something Jacob just said, because throughout the day, there
have been numerous reports. And I want to reiterate the fact that in these
situations, it`s a particularly chaotic one, initial reports are sometimes
erroneous, or unconfirmed. So, I want to let you know that we`ve been hearing
and what we`re able to definitively confirm.

Throughout the day, there have been fears of IEDs. There`s been some scanner
reports of calling in bomb-disarming robots. There had been reports about.
Obviously, they treated the SUV with tremendous care, on the off-chance it was
rigged in some way.

Jacob just mentioned the fear of some possible explosives being around. We have
no definitive confirmation that any of those have been encountered, but there
have been reports of that. That`s what our knowledge of that stands at the
moment.

Again, we are awaiting a police presser at this moment, as the manhunt
continues. Hoping that we are going to get a little bit more definitive
information about who these suspects are, the state of the many injured who have
been rushed to area hospitals, the last count was 17 injured, 14 dead. That`s 14
fatalities today, as of now, at this moment, the most since Sandy Hook.

I want to bring in NBC News justice correspondent, Pete Williams, who`s been
working this story with his sources all day.

And, Pete, any indication from law enforcement on what direction this
investigation, still in its infancy has taken?

PETE WILLIAMS, NBC NEWS JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: Yes, there`s a preliminary sense
of it, Chris. The initial feeling is and this is the working assumption is that
this was, in fact, some sort of workplace violence shooting, that the source --
the people who fired the shots chose that building because of the people who
were inside. That it was not a random thing, that it was not a desire merely to
shoot some people to make a point, that that was chosen on purpose because of a
dispute involving the people inside.

Now, that, as I say, is a working assumption, and sometimes investigations go
down one road and that turns out to be a blind alley and they go in a different
direction. But that`s their assumption at this point, that it`s, in other words,
not some sort of internationally inspired or jihadist kind of terrorism.

HAYES: There is reports, and again, this is not confirmed by NBC News as of yet,
there are reports from the "L.A. Times," which is an excellent news
organization, has been working this story, it`s in their backyard, that a
dispute at a holiday gathering may have sparked the mass shooting. That, in
fact, there may be some indications that there was actually some kind of
argument, someone left and came back.

But, again, Pete, what you`re saying jives with that and Tom Costello`s, again,
in the preliminary working assumptions, there was not an act of violence as a
kind of political or ideological statement.

WILLIAMS: Right. I think I`m basically saying the same thing the "L.A. Times"
is. Now, as to whether this person was there earlier and came back, I don`t -- I
don`t know about that part. The part that`s a little hard to square with that is
that there was an argument and somehow three people came back to shoot. It
doesn`t seem right.

HAYES: Right.

WILLIAMS: That seems like it was more planned than that. It may be that the
individual went in to see if someone was there, that he was mad at and came back
and this had been planned for some time. But the point here is, without getting
into that level of detail, which we just don`t know if is true or not, it does
appear to be workplace violence and not some type of internationally-inspired or
jihad-style terrorism. In other words, not a Paris-style attack.

HAYES: All right. Pete Williams, thank you. We`ll be checking back in, of
course.

Joining me now on the phone from San Bernardino, MSNBC national correspondent,
Trymaine Lee. Trymaine has been out there are if several hours, watching this
all unfold.

And I got to imagine that law enforcement has been pretty afraid. It`s been an
unbelievably difficult day there.

TRYMAINE LEE, MSNBC NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (via telephone): That`s right, Chris.
There was a moment an hour and a half or so go when the scene took a dramatic
turn. After an hour or so of relative calm, they were pushing reporters back
another block further up.

But there was a moment when I saw two officers running towards their vehicle.
One had an assault-style rifle in his hand, jumped in the car and sped off,
actually kind of fishtailing around the corner, that`s how fast they were going,
followed by another car and another car and another car. And it was right before
or as the shoot-out and standoff was unfolding a few miles away. So, certainly,
what had been a sad and a dramatic day continues to be dramatic and sad.

Now, I also spoke with a few people who had loved ones inside the center at the
time of the shooting. And to kind of piggyback on the idea of just how
frightening this ordeal has been and how terrifying it has been, to have these
suspects still on the loose and these people weren`t getting much information
from police, they still hasn`t had their loved ones in their arms.

I mean, I spoke to one gentleman named Mr. Gutierrez. His wife is a director
inside the center and he said that she called him and he could hear the chaos in
the background, as she and a group of her colleagues, you know, hid in an office
and barricaded the door with desks. And now, she said she saw a heavyset man
dressed in all black with a mask on his face and a big gun firing at people a
floor or two below them.

And so, to say it`s been a terrifying deal is kind of understating it.
Especially, again, as you mentioned, at least one suspect is still at large.

HAYES: All right. Trymaine, I want to go now I want you to stay with us the
hospital is now giving a press conference. We`re still awaiting a police press
conference, but let`s listen into what the hospital is saying.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: -- just as a precaution to ensure the safety of our
patients and staff.

I`m sorry, go ahead?

REPORTER: Family members might know victims. How are they supposed to get any
information from you?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The families of the victims have been notified and have
been directed where to go. I can`t determine where any of the patients came
from, whether or not they were law enforcement or not.

REPORTER: Are some of your patients well enough yet to share what they know with
law enforcement?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Well, two of the victims are -- I`m sorry, let me refer to
my notes on the conditions. We have two critical but stable, two are in Fair,
and one is still being assessed.

REPORTER: So has the Fair been able to speak with law enforcement and share
information?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I am not aware of whether or not they`ve spoken with law
enforcement or not.

REPORTER: Do we know the gender of these patients?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No, five adult patients.

REPORTER: Where did everybody else go?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: As far as hospitals? I would imagine that there are a
couple other hospitals in the area. I can`t comment on what other hospitals were
involved.

HAYES: All right. That`s an update from Loma Linda hospital, where some of the
victims of today`s shooting in San Bernardino have been taken.

We have 14 fatalities, 17 injuries, 10 critical, I believe. Also, on top of
that, one officer, who appears to have been wounded in the shoot-out with the
suspects. That officer`s injuries sustained are nonlife- threatening, we are
told at this hour.

We are still awaiting a police press conference that we are hoping to find out
more information. The latest is that two suspects are, quote, "down", meaning
two suspects have said essentially immobilized in some fashion.

There were earlier reports that one may be dead and one may have been injured in
the shoot-out with police in an SUV that was, again, encountered just a mile or
two from where all of this originally went down, which was, I think, surprising
to a lot of folks, imagining that the people who had pulled this off and managed
to get away would be far away. They were not. They were in the area. They were
encountered by police. A shoot-out ensued.

What you`re seeing is what happened after that shoot-out. That SUV having been
riddled with bullets, being surrounded by various SWAT vehicles, which hold it
in place, later on, a vehicle would come in with a shield on it and would
essentially draw out what appeared to be a body out of that SUV. We imagine that
body, you see it right there, was, indeed, of one of the suspects.

A third suspect at this hour remains at large. And, of course, that is the
priority right now for law enforcement and may explain why we have the delay
that we have.

We are recovering from a mass shooting just a few days ago that happened in
Colorado Springs at a Planned Parenthood facility. There has been political
debate about whether that assault should be labeled domestic terrorism. Three
people shot and killed by a suspect, it appears, allegedly named Robert Dear,
who is in custody.

That is still in the headlines on this day that we have the worst mass shooting
since Newtown Sandy Hook. We have had and there`s some debate over how mass
shootings are classified in this country, but if you count them as shootings in
which four or more people are shot, we have had over 350 mass shootings in this
country. We are on day, I believe it, 336, more mass shootings than days in the
year so far this year.

Joining me now, Shannon Watts, founder of Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in
America, also part of Everytown for Gun Safety.

Well, what`s your shooting on a day like today?

SHANNON WATTS, MOMS DEMAND ACTION FOR GUN SENSE IN AMERICA: It`s shocking. It`s
terrifying. I`m angry.

But most of all, I`m angry that our lawmakers haven`t acted. How long can we go
on as a country with a mass shooting every single week? It`s not a tenable
situation and we will win this fight for lawmakers to pass gun laws. The
question is, how long are we going to wait? How many lives will be lost?

HAYES: What do you say to people who say, you`re still here right now, there are
still bodies in the hospital, the situation is still at large, that this is
essentially opportunistic to talk about gun legislation at this time?

WATTS: I and so many other Americans in this country will never be silent again
after Sandy Hook. The gun lobby wants us to be silent. They`re always saying,
it`s too soon to talk about these shootings.

It`s not too soon. It`s too late for the victims of San Bernardino. I had a mom
whose daughter was a victim in the Sandy Hook shooting text me on my way here
and say, please, beg them to act, in my daughter`s memory.

HAYES: From the San Bernardino shooting?

WATTS: The Sandy Hook mom saw this and, you know, these survivors can`t believe
we`re letting this go on.

HAYES: But we talk about gun safety legislation in the wake of something like
this and the natural sort of question that ensues is, well, first of all, we
have no idea how these individuals obtain these guns. It`s possible they obtain
them legally in California. And California is a state with relatively stringent
gun safety legislation, particularly compared to a place like, say, Alabama, or
Georgia, right? Texas, for instance.

You know, what do you say to folks who say, look, there`s just no matching the
but-for cause and effect of whatever happened in this individual situation and
whatever legislation you might be proposing?

WATTS: First of all, the details are still unfolding, but guns can cross state
lines, just like cars do. You`re only as strong and safe as the neighboring
state. Nevada, for example, where we`re trying to pass background checks, they
have very weak gun laws.

So, this is a national problem that requires a national solution. And the fact
that our Congress hasn`t acted in the wake of these tragedies is shameful.

HAYES: I believe the Black Friday this year set a record for the number of
federal background checks that were run for the purchase of guns.

I want to let people know what they`re seeing. This is earlier today, that
facility, the Inland Regional Center is a massive facility, 600 employees, a
huge amount of people coming in and out. Took a very long time to evacuate. It
was evacuated in a pretty remarkable fashion by law enforcement arriving at the
scene.

But there`s a golf course across the street, and at one point, folks were
essentially taken out of that building, in that now chillingly familiar line,
where people come out with their hands up. We`ve seen it at mass shooting after
mass shooting after active shooter after active shooter situation, at one point
coming out hands up. At this point, they were being searched by police, law
enforcement officials, who still at that point did not know who the shooters
were or where they were.

So, that`s what you`re seeing from earlier today, as that procession was led out
through the parking lot, some taken to the golf course, some given triage right
there in the intersection, right out in front of there.

But -- so when you think about the policy response, when you think about the
Black Friday numbers, part of the issue here is the availability, part of it is
just it strikes me that whatever you do at the margins, the sort of driving
effect here is this country has a very profound gun culture where lots of guns
are manufactured and lots of guns are bought and there`s lots of people with 20
or 30 guns and they want to have those 20 or 30 guns. There`s probably who
shouldn`t have guns who do and there are people who probably are no threat to
others and do have guns.

What is the solution past these sort of low hanging fruit items like the ones
you`re talking about?

WATTS: Background checks, full stop. You`re talking about guns sold through
federally licensed dealers. Millions of guns are sold every year with absolutely
no background check, to very dangerous people. And it`s perfectly legal.

You know, if more guns made it safer, we`d be the safest country in the world.
In fact, we have 20 times the gun murder rate of other developed nations.

So, it`s an experiment that failed. We`ve let the gun lobby write our gun laws.
It didn`t work, it`s time to take our country back and to fight and say, you
know, Congress, you`re going to do what we say or you`re not going to have your
job.

HAYES: It will be interesting to see if there is political momentum for that.

Today, we should note, just to give a little sense as you`re watching live shots
of the manhunt that`s still continuing as we await the press conference from the
police and law enforcement officials there, just give you a sense, a little bit,
of some of the political reaction that happened today.

This was President Obama in the midst of a pre-scheduled interview with CBS`
Norah O`Donnell, as this was unfolding, being asked a about the situation.
Here`s what he had to say.

All right, joining us now -- do we have from Loma Linda Medical Center in San
Bernardino, where many of today`s victims are being treated, NBC News
correspondent Morgan Radford.

Morgan, we got a little bit of information in that press conference earlier,
what can you tell us?

MORGAN RADFORD, NBC NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Well, based on the press conference that
happened just moments ago, we know that 17 overall were injured, but of those
17, 5 adults were brought here to the Loma Linda Medical Center.

Now, of those five adults, two were critical, two were fair, and one is still
being assessed. Now, at 2:30, there was a code yellow bomb threat that was
called right here at the hospital behind me while I was standing here. But then
a K-9 assessment team went inside. They realized that bomb threat was not, in
fact, credible. It was lifted then at 3:30.

The press office says that they are going back now to business as usual,
although they do not expect anymore victims to come to this hospital after
today`s shooting. The press office would not confirmed whether or not one of the
victims was brought here was, in fact, an officer, but an eyewitness did say an
officer suffered nonlife-threatening injuries from today`s shooting was brought
here, just within the past two hours.

So, we`re also waiting to hear from the family members. Lots of family members
have come to this hospital, waiting, Chris, for any word on their loved ones.

HAYES: Morgan, thank you very much for that. That`s useful what you said about
the bomb threat. There were numerous reports throughout the day and it`s useful
to know when those reports have been knocked down.

Again, we are awaiting this police presser. I have to say, if you`re watching
this, as we`ve watched this unfold all day, there`s a certain numbness that has
set in, I think, among many people, many observers, people even in the news
business on what we call mass shootings day. Those are days we come to the
office and at some point during the day, we get word that someone has engaged in
a mass shooting somewhere in this country, whether that`s in Colorado springs in
Planned Parenthood, whether it`s at a community college in Oregon, as happened
recently as well.

Today unfolded in a particularly horrific way, and particularly baffling way.
The initial report of multiple shooters were baffling when people didn`t think
this target appeared to be any kind of plausible ideological or terroristic
target and yet there were multiple shooters. The fact that this was a county
health department that was holding this banquet in this conference call inside
the Inland Region Center, which is a social service agency, who if you go on
Twitter, was celebrating Christmas holiday party with the people they serve
yesterday.

These are people that do tremendously thankless and important work, working with
folks, many who have developmental challenges. You can see some of the victim
that was online, as they celebrated and sang yesterday at the holiday party. The
target is just so inconceivable.

And the fact that there were three suspects, the fact that those three suspects
managed to escape the scene, also inconceivable. The fact that those three
suspects then proceed to stay in the area, and were ultimately encountered by
police, who then engaged in a shoot-out with them, one of whom remaining at this
hour at large, as police continue a manhunt through the streets, block by block
in San Bernardino.

You can see there in the lower right-hand corner, we are preparing, hopefully,
any minute now, for word from law enforcement to give us the latest update.

The latest numbers -- 14 dead, 17 injured, 10 critical, one officer also
injured. Although as Morgan Radford was just reporting from outside Loma Linda
hospital, that officer`s injuries to be nonlife-threatening, though sustained
during that prolonged shoot-out that happened with that SUV.

It appears that we`re going to get the public information officer from law
enforcement just any moment now to comment and tell us the latest on what is
going on. Presumably, by the time this night is over, we will have the
identities, at least, of some of the suspects confirmed imagine at this hour,
law enforcement is tracing back their information.

We have also with me now, for the latest on that manhunt, MSNBC`s Jacob
Soboroff, who is in the area around which police are swarming, as they try to
track down the individual that got away, apparently from that confrontation
earlier.

What`s going on there, Jacob?

SOBOROFF: So, I don`t know if you can just see, Chris, but we saw another black
and white cruise right by us. But this is a fluid situation, and as a matter of
fact, this one block, which was, as you said, swarmed with police just a minute
ago, the law enforcement presence has virtually evaporated from this
intersection, just a block that way, I would say less than half an hour ago, two
or three heavily armed tactical vehicles in addition to just an ordinary Chevy
Silverado pickup truck filled with law enforcement officials with assault
weapons in their hands were virtually going door to door looking for someone.
One of them had said to me that I should quote/unquote, take shelter because of
the potential for explosives to be in this neighborhood. Why there would be
explosives in this neighborhood, we do not know. We cannot confirm.

But, you know, it is clear that law enforcement officials and agencies here on
the ground are preparing for the worst.

HAYES: Jacob is out there in the streets near where that manhunt is happening
obviously at this hour, a tremendously tense situation for the residents in San
Bernadino and also law enforcement who are trying to apprehend this final
suspect, final suspect who was, allegedly, was the person involved in this just
absolutely terrifying and horrific mass shooting that happened earlier today and
as yet completely inexplicable tragedy, but for, of course, the centrality of
the fact of the long guns in their hands, the only thing we really do know for
sure was that the bullets within the from the guns into the bodies of the folks
they killed.

Jim Cavanaugh is an MSNBC law enforcement analyst, a retired special agent in
charge of the ATF. And Jim, you spent years doing hostage negotiations with
folks. And you got to be thinking law enforcement at this point is probably
tremendously worried about the possibility of that being how this plays out, as
they try to find that final suspect?

JIM CAVANAUGH, MSNBC LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: Exactly, Chris, that`s the main
concern right now, the on-scene commanders, is that this guy is desperate, he`s
left the vehicle that he was in. He`s got a long gun. He might have, you know, a
lot of armor and other handguns. And he might car jack somebody, break into a
house, take somebody hostage. You know, he doesn`t have a lot of good options.
He`s already been involved in a vicious mass murder. I mean, this is as violent
as it gets.

And nightfall has come, so he has a little bit of darkness advantage. We`re
probably going to hear of him trying to carjack somebody or get into a house,
but he could do it. He could be inside somewhere.

HAYES: The images you just saw we believe people coming off the bus at the
hospital that are also, I should say, this -- throughout the late afternoon,
early evening local time, folks reuniting in a place called The Hernandez Center
in San Bernardino County, where officials had told folks to go to go reconnect
with loved ones. There`s -- obviously hundreds of people that worked at that
building, thousands more who have moved through that center to use its services
and a tremendous amount of worried calls and anxiety today throughout the day.

Folks reconnecting at the Hernandez center as the officials go through who
exactly is accounted for. It appears, at this moment, that we know, or at least
officials know -- the names have not been released -- who the dead are, who the
wounded are, all of that had been accounted for.

What has not been accounted for, as Jim Cavanaugh was making mention of a moment
ago, is that last suspect, as we await this police presser.

Jim, you were talking earlier today, talk a little bit about part of the
strangeness of watching this story unfold. When we heard multiple shooters in
the day, I think a lot of folks, both in law enforcement and people who have
reported on these situations in the past, immediately had a skeptical reaction
to this being possible, multiple shooters. Explain why that kind of skepticism
was there in the beginning?

CAVANAUGH: Well, when you have a lot of these mass shootings by someone who is
bent on revenge or is involved in a mental health issue, it`s hard, usually, for
that person to get others to help them in their desire for mass murder. When you
see -- it`s not impossible and it sometimes happen. Columbine is an example, the
D.C. snipers. Sometimes we see it, but most of the time, those are single actors
on workplace violence, on mass shooting events like Planned Parenthood the other
day.

But when you get into more political motives, you can get multiple actors,
because there`s a real dedication to murder here.

Now, I still think, Chris -- and you`ve discussed this earlier, but I still
think the motives remain open, as they were earlier. Revenge or power. Power,
which would encompass a terrorism or political motive, like, say, domestic
terrorists, for example.

I agree with Pete Williams, that I don`t think there`s anything to indicate at
all that this definitely does not look like anything that any kind of ISIS,
Daesh, al Qaeda types would commit. So, I think that`s way off the table.

But I don`t think it`s out domestically, a domestic one, or a revenge motive.

When someone goes out and gets people to act with them on a murder like this,
they may already be members of a criminal gang who can easily get help from
other criminal gang members to do a murder. So, that`s one possibility, if you
have a revenge, or you can have some family members who would help you exact
revenge. Or you can have a political motive, a power motive, to attack a certain
group of people for a certain reason...

HAYES: Jim, I`m going to stop you right there, because we are seeing law
enforcement officials assemble at the microphones there in San Bernardino.

We have been awaiting, anxiously, a press conference and it appears it`s
beginning now. Let`s take a listen.

JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNADINO POLICE: So this is the second official press
conference we`ll do on this. I`m not going to go through all of the details that
we went through in the first press conference. But I will say this: since that
time, we are still working on the building here at the Inland Regional Center.

As officers were searching the building, we mentioned in the first press
conference that there were some suspicious devices. One of those devices is
believed to potentially be an explosive device. So they`re taking a very
cautious, very slow approach to processing that building and rendering that
safe.

So I would imagine we`re going to be here for several hours, as the bomb squad
continues to work that part.

On the investigative side, we have followed up on some tips that took us to a
residence in the city of Redlands. When officers were setting up on that
residence to watch it, there was a vehicle that was seen leaving that was
suspected of possibly being involved.

There ended up being a pursuit of that vehicle and eventually, that pursuit came
back to San Bernardino Avenue between Mountain View and Richardson, here in the
city of San Bernardino, where the suspect vehicle stopped and there was an
officer-involved shooting.

We had multiple officers that were involved in the shooting. We have two
suspects that are dead at the scene, one is a male, one is a female. We had one
police officer that was wounded. He has injuries that are not considered to be
life threatening and he is at a local hospital that is expected to be okay.

Of the suspects that were dead at the scene, one is a male, one is a female.
They were dressed in kind of assault-style clothing, I think is probably the
best way to term it. They were both armed with assault rifles. They were both
armed with handguns. And there`s also some kind of sensitive stuff around the
vehicle that they`re just not real sure -- they`re taking a very cautious
approach to dealing with the vehicles in case there`s more explosives there.

With that, I`m going to turn it over to Dave Boditch with the FBI to talk about
some parts of the investigation.

DAVID BOWDICH, FBI: Thank you, chief.

So, first off, my name is -- my name is David Bowditch. I`m the assistant
director in charge of the FBI here in the Los Angeles field office.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Can you spell that?

BOWDICH: B-O-W-D-I-C-H.

First off, we want to extend our true sadness to the families of the victims.
There are many, many victims who were involved here. Some are obviously
deceased, others are wounded and being treated as we speak. This is truly a
tragedy in our country, and we will continue to apply all the resources
necessary to assure that both us, the sheriff`s department, the San Bernardino
Police Department, as well as the ATF work this thing together to assure that we
have chased down every lead to solve this case.

Secondly, we are bringing in FBI resources. We have agents on a house in
Redlands, California, right now. That house, as we know, we do not know the
contents of what`s in that house, but previous active shooter incidents have
shown us that there are times when devices are left behind. We do not have any
indications there are devices, to my knowledge, but we certainly are going to
proceed very cautiously into that house to preserve life and limb of our
employees.

We`re bringing evidence response teams in to work hand in hand with our state
and local partners on the officer-involved shooting scenes, as well as the scene
here, where we have multiple victims, as well as the house. We will continue to
go down this road. This is a marathon, not a sprint.

I know one of the big questions that will come up repeatedly is, is this
terrorism? And I am still not willing to say that we know that for sure. We are
definitely making some movements that it is a possibility. We are making some
adjustments to our investigation. It is a possibility, but we don`t know that
yet.

And we`re not willing to go down that road yet.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: David, the relationship between the two dead suspects?

BOWDICH: Unknown at this point.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: How old, approximately, are they?

BOWDICH: I do not even know that.

UNIDENIFIED FEMALE: What about the third suspect, or the possible third suspect?

BOWDICH: There is a third suspect. And I don`t know the disposition of that
suspect. I would defer that question to the chief.

What I will tell you on any indications of terrorism for this investigation, and
I`ve told a few of you already, we will go where the evidence takes us. It`s
possible it goes down that road. It`s also possible it does not.

We`re just not sure yet. And when we are fairly sure, we will let you know.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What gives you the sense that it`s -- possibly terrorism?

BOWDICH: There are a number of potential things -- there`s a few potential
things, but we just don`t know. And I`m not willing to go down that road. This
is a very fluid, active investigation. We are still gathering facts, we are
still gathering some of these facts ourselves, because the scene is strewn
throughout the city into and into another city and it`s incredibly fluid.

And that`s the way these things -- we`ll get there when we get there.

(CROSSTALK)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: ...information about the identity of the third suspect, a
description, anything?

BURGUAN: I should have included that when I talked a moment ago. So, as I said,
we had an officer involved shooting on San Marino (ph) Avenue between Mountain
View and Richardson. There were two people in the vehicle, both people of those
people are deceased.

There was a third person that was seen running away. We do not know if they were
involved. We have that person detained.

I don`t have any information on who that person is yet, and we certainly do not
know if they were involved. It`s possible that they were not.

In addition to that, and the reason we put things out on social media, that we
asked for people to shelter in place in those neighborhoods is because there
were some folks that called in and had reported that they heard somebody jumping
fences and they reported some of that activity in the neighborhood.

We don`t know if that was possibly responding officers, but we took a cautious
approach, we locked down the neighborhood, we asked people to shelter in place,
and we searched that neighborhood extensively.

As of a couple of minutes ago, we just got word that that search has been
wrapped up, no additional folks have been contacted or seen there, so we feel
that that area is safe and we can lift that shelter in place order there.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Is the search over?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And why this location?

BURGUAN: We do not have a motive.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Approximate age of the suspects?

BURGUAN: We do not -- I do not have that right now, do not -- keep in mind that
I said that there were some things that were causing the officers to take a
very, very cautious approach in approaching those suspects. And so we just are
not that far into the investigation yet.

(CROSSTALK)

BURGUAN: I`m sorry?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The possibility that these suspects might have been wearing
suicide vests or something similar?

BURGUAN: I don`t know. I have not heard suicide vests, no.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you believe that this whole situation is all clear, that
people are safe, or there`s still more shooters potentially out there?

BURGUAN: We feel confident about the neighborhood where the officer- involved
shooting took place, that we have secured that and there`s nobody outstanding
there. We`re reasonably confident on that.

On the broader scale of the investigation, as I said early on, we had
information that there were potentially three shooters. We are still at a point
where we are tracking down that information. We`re going to trying to continue
to identify if there was a third person involved or potentially even more people
that might have been involved in the planning. But we`re still pretty early on
that part of the investigation.

(CROSSTALK)

BURGUAN: I can`t listen to all of them.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Chief, there`s a report out that at the holiday party,
somebody left angrily, went out, came back with two other people, guns, and
started firing. Any proof to that?

BURGUAN: So, there -- I have heard that they were in a meeting or a holiday
party type event at the Inland Regional Center, somebody did leave, but we have
no idea if that is the person that came back.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh, so that`s a possibility?

BURGUAN: Somebody did leave. There was some type of dispute or something when
somebody left that party, but we have no idea if those are the people that came
back.

UNIDENIFIED MALE: do you have any idea of what kind of weapons were recovered at
the -- you said long guns initially...

BURGUAN: They were assault-style weapons.

UNIDENIFIED FEMALE: Chief, are there...

BURGUAN: AK series...

BURGUAN: Yeah, that type of weapon.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Are there explosives, sir, near that black SUV? Currently?

BURGUAN: There was a report that they potentially threw what is identified as a
pipe bomb. I think we`ve rendered that device safe. It was not an explosive. I
think we`re working on the vehicle and making sure that is safe.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: can you give us anything on description of these suspects?
Their appearance, anything, age?

BURGUAN: Just the way it was described to me, and I said this in the first press
conference they came dressed and equipped. And I think the people we have at the
scene that are deceased are dressed in that way. They`re dressed in dark, kind
of tactical gear, I think is the best way I`ll put it.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Ethnicity, anything like that? Do you have any information on
that?

BURGUAN: I don`t know.

I didn`t say we served a search warrant.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: OK.

We understand you served a search warrant, is what we`re being told. So is it
your understand thing they were holed up in the general area the whole time?
They never left...

BURGUAN: There was information -- on the early part of the investigation, as we
started to develop information, there was one particular focus area that we went
-- there were a couple, but there was one particular focus area that we went to,
and it was one of those follow- ups, focus areas, that led us to the house in
the Redlands, that led to the ultimate pursuit, that led to the officer-
involved shooting.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Did it appear they live there? Was that their house?

BURGUAN: The address was connected to the follow-up that we had. I don`t know
who the suspects are nor do I know if that is where they live?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Chief, do you believe that the police killed the two people
in the SUV?

BURGUAN: They were calling assault-style weapons. I don`t know the specific
caliber, make or model of the gun.

UNIDENITIFIED FEMALE: ...killed those two people in the SUV?

BURGUAN: There were two people in the SUV and both are deceased.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: By the police?

BURGUAN: One male, one female.

While they were engaged in a gun battle with police officers and we had several
officers that shot at them and into the vehicle. I don`t know what bullets
caused their death.

We have a third person that was seen leaving the area. He is detained. We do not
know the extent of his involvement, if any. It`s possible that he was not.

(CROSSTALK)

BURGUAN: He was -- the person was detained very close to where the
officer-involved shooting. We don`t have an (inaudible).

I don`t know.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Did he have weapons on him?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There was an arrest on Colson (ph) Street.

BURGUAN: There was somebody detained. We have not identified them yet.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Chief, did that person have weapons on him, that third
suspect that`s detained? Any weapons located o d on that person.

BURGUAN: I don`t have that information.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Were there any words exchanged during this gunfire
that`s...

BURGUAN: I don`t know.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What`s (inaudible)?

BURGUAN: Don`t know.

OK. We`re going to try to do another press conference some time around 8:30,
9:00. Hopefully we`ll have more information for you at that time. Thank you.

HAYES: All right, that was Jarrod Burguan from the San Bernardino Police, from
the sheriff`s office, giving the latest.

So, there`s lots of information there to run through, in case you didn`t get all
of that, and some of it correcting things that we`ve been reporting before.

So here`s what we know. Police followed a tip after the shooting, that tip led
them to an address in Redlands, California, near San Bernardino. The two
suspects were encountered as police moved towards that address in the SUV.

The two suspects were then in a shoot-out, outside or near that address. They
were both killed inside or found dead inside that SUV. The suspects were,
according to the chief, a man and a woman. There is no information about
anything else, other than they were a man and a woman, that they had
assault-style weapons, as well as handguns, and also were wearing what he called
assault-style gear or tactical gear.

There was a third individual who was seen running from the scene. That
individual was apprehended. However, at this moment, there is no definitive
information about whether or not that individual is connected with what
happened.

Area residents began calling into law enforcement to say they heard people
jumping over fences and the like, out of a surfeit of caution. Local law
enforcement then did essentially a search of the area, telling people to shelter
in place. At that press conference, a law enforcement official announcing that
search is now over. So it would appear to be, at this moment, two suspects who
were inside the car are dead, a third person running away, though, not
necessarily identified as a suspect, apprehended, and earlier reports that there
was an active manhunt for a suspect on the loose, now appearing not to be true,
that there was worry that there may have been people moving through yards, but
that might have been law enforcement themselves, but they have now wrapped up
that search.

Additionally, a statement from an FBI spokesperson who seems to be opening the
door back up to the possibility of terrorism, which comes at a time where law
enforcement officials through NBC News` reporting and other reporting seemed to
be essentially closing that door a bit.

So, he said it remains a possibility. There are some things in the investigation
that might take us in that direction, but as of now we just don`t know anything,
nothing, nothing definitive about why two individuals would go into a conference
room at a big social service agency, where the department of health, the county
in San Bernardino was having a holiday party.

Joining me now by phone is the mayor of Los Angeles, Eric Garcetti, a Los
Angeles, about an hour away from San Bernardino. And mayor, your reaction to
what`s transpired today?

ERIC GARCETTI, MAYOR OF LOS ANGELES: Well, thank you, Chris. Obviously, my first
reaction is with the families and the human beings whose lives were irreparably
shattered today by this violence that we saw. We had, of course, helping our
brother agencies, sister agencies in San Bernadino. We had a presence of Los
Angeles police officers. Our SWAT team was on the ground.

And while this has resolved itself in terms of the violence today, I think it
underscores for all of us just the vigilance we need to have in all of our
areas, it`s homegrown or whether it`s foreign terrorism, we`re seeing that
there`s clearly an ongoing threat in our cities.

This was very close to Los Angeles, and I think we feel very deeply the impact
of what happened today, and we`re going to continue to provide whatever services
for our friends in San Bernadino we can.

HAYES: Mayor Garcetti, a lot of talk about guns today. The one thing -- again,
the one thing we know is that these two individuals had a lot of guns and they
used them in this shooting.

Also, California not a place with particularly permissive gun laws. Do you want
to see some movement on guns?

GARCETTI: Oh, absolutely. I`ve been a longtime supporter of, I think, the most
guns that we can get out of the hands of those folks that are dangerous, by
focusing on, you know, those bad apple gun dealers that are responsible for many
of the illegal guns we see all over the United States, by having clear
background checks, and making sure, too, that we have gun safety, education, all
of those are critically important.

But this becomes so politicized. People point out that California has strict gun
laws when we have a tragedy like that, but it`s easy to get guns across borders
and illegal guns even in states where there are tough gun laws, like in
California and Southern California.

We just can`t become numb to this, though. I mean, this happens too often. Each
case is different. We can`t generalize them, but we also are one of these rare,
developed countries where this just becomes every single week. And the ones that
never make, quite frankly, the television, because it`s one or two at a time
that happen on our urban streets, with often what`s seen as everyday violence.

But this one really cuts very deeply for us. This was folks who were celebrating
the holidays, were it not for the individuals and the guns that they had, this
would not have happened.

HAYES: All right. Mayor Garcetti in Los Angeles, thank you very much, I
appreciate it.

GARCETTI: Thank you, Chris.

HAYES: All right. Jim Cavanaugh, I want you to sort of make whatever sense you
can make of what information was given to us by law enforcement officials in
that press conference.

Two people, a man and a woman in tactical gear with ton of guns.

CAVANAUGH: Yeah, well, you know, one thing we talked about earlier, revenge
motive. You know, if you`re going to get somebody to help you in a revenge
motive, you might believe able to get your spouse or girlfriend to do that.

So, you know, that just stuck out to me there. I don`t think that`s out of the
realm of possibilities yet, this being a revenge motive.

As far as the items left at the scene that the bomb squad is probing, that could
be an explosive device or a backpack full of ammo, you know, or some kind of
equipment they dropped. It doesn`t necessarily mean it`s a bomb, but they have
to treat it like it is.

The other part, Chris, I thought was interesting is, law enforcement got an
address in Redlands, California, these people had come up some way in the
investigation as someone they should surveil.

And if I`m not mistaken, the chief said they went there to surveil it. So while
they were surveilling it, the target vehicle, the black SUV, moved. And, of
course, they would follow it, but it moved back toward San Bernardino, and back
toward the center.

HAYES: Jim, let me stop you there for a second. I want you to take a look at
what we`ve got here on our air. It appears to be -- and this, I believe, is a
live shot, some kind of vehicle with a huge pole in front of it, kind of
battering ram, entering a house somewhere.

Do you have any sense of what`s going on there?

CAVANAUGH: Yeah, that`s a Bear Cat. It has a ram that you can affix to the
front, and it takes a door down. You know, so that`s a pretty standard SWAT
tactic. If they think somebody`s in a house barricade, they can ram the door
down, if it`s a ram, or it could be a ballistic shield. It`s not real clear on
the video there if it`s a ballistic shield. I can`t quite see it.

Sometimes they use a ballistic shield to move up. We saw that earlier on the
black SUV that was in the middle of the street, where the two deceased actors
were, where they moved up that tract vehicle called a SWAT bot or a SWAT robot,
but it has a ballistic shield in the front. It`s like a little track vehicle,
they can move it right up.

But the battering rams, all affixed to the front of the Bearcat armored vehicle,
so you can ram a door, puncture a wall, so you can make access.

HAYES: We`re still awaiting word of what exactly is going on there. It is
possible, I suppose, given the information we know that we know that there is at
least an address that had been associated with some of the individuals that were
in Redlands.

Although, I don`t know if the shot we have right now is of that address.

I want to bring in my colleague, Reverend Al Sharpton, who has been spending a
lot of time recently working on gun violence. And one of the things you`ll hear,
as we look at the horror of what happened today, is people will say, yes, mass
shootings in this country are terrible, but that`s not actually where most gun
violence happens. And you can`t focus on those as the means of solving the
problem.

You`ve been spending a lot of time talking about gun violence that is even more
routine than the kind of 14 people shot here, more like what we saw in Savannah
today, where four people were shot and one was killed.

AL SHARPTON, MSNBC: What is constant is people will say, well, most people are
not killed in mass shootings. But what is the same is in mass shootings or daily
shootings, all of them are done by guns. And we need to deal with the fact that
there are too many guns available to Americans.

Where do mass shootings come from? People having access to weapons, access to
guns. And the NRA has never been confronted with that.

I was talking with Governor Andrew Cuomo of New York today, where you have the
NRA fighting loopholes in New York State Law, that allow people that are
suspected of terrorists or that are on certain lists...

HAYES: The watch list.

SHARPTON: Yeah, the watch list, that can still get guns, legally. And the
defense is, they have their Second Amendment right.

I mean, we are in an absurd state when it`s Colorado one week, now today San
Bernadino. Every day in many communities like Chicago, New York, et cetera, and
we are not rising up, saying, wait a minute. We`ve got to get the guns off the
street.

And how many times are we going to see this before we deal with the fact that
whether people have mental problems, whether people have whatever motives, if
they didn`t have a gun, they couldn`t do the kinds of things we`re looking at.

HAYES: We are looking right now, as Reverend Al is speaking, just so you know,
would appear to be a robot going into that house. That house was first hit by a
Bearcat battering ram. We don`t know why that house is being searched at that
moment. We don`t know what his connection could possibly be, but it seems to
have some connection to what has happened today in San Bernardino, which is the
worst mass shooting in this country since almost exactly three years ago, I
guess it was, right? December 14th, 2012, that Sandyhook happened in Newtown,
Connecticut, a moment that people thought might galvanize a move for some sort
of gun safety legislation. Since then, we`ve seen a spate of mass killings.
We`ve seen, of course, tremendous amounts of gun violence in urban areas across
the country. Nothing has moved politically.

SHARPTON: And when you look at the fact, when you talk about nothing has moved
politically, Chris, when you look at the presidential elections and the
presidential campaigns in both sides, Democrat and Republican, there`s no one
really even running that is coming out with a strong, aggressive, anti-gun kind
of campaign. And on the Republican side, it is almost the opposite, so it`s
almost like we`re living in an alternative universes, between the politics at
the top and the reality that we are going in almost a weekly mass shooting kind
of diet, and daily in many communities that are under siege.

HAYES: Talk about the kind of ways in which gun violence traumatizes
communities. I mean, I think we`ve all watched this and we`ve seen interviews
with folks, we know what happened in Sandy Hook, they had to knock down the
school and start over. We know what happens in areas where people have to cope
with the PTSD that comes from losing loved ones or having been through this kind
of thing.

There are neighborhoods in America where gun violence is so routine that entire
swaths of census tracks are essentially living under conditions of PTSD.

SHAPRTON: And living with these kinds of stressed out conditions. And it frames
the mentality where you literally have young children growing up, used to
hearing gunfire, used to seeing people being buried, used to death in their
immediate environment, which is totally unhealthy to grow up with that as the
norm.

And we are seeing that every day now.

You have people in communities that I work in with National Action Network, that
have young children that don`t know that this is not the way life is supposed to
be.

SHARPTON: And what is and what is not normal is essentially at the fulcrum of
what this political national debate is about gun violence and whether it will be
accepted as normal.

My colleague, Reverend Al Sharpton, thank you very much.

As we approach the turn of the hour, I want to get you up to speed. We are
watching what we believe to be a search warrant served on that house. Two
suspects, dead, according to police at this hour, one man, one woman, with
assault-style weapons, tactical gear, as well as handguns and a shoot-out in an
SUV, another individual seen running away, who is not necessarily a suspect, but
who was apprehended.

And as of now, no one else on the loose, no indication as of yet to the motive
for this horrific event. The worst mass shooting in America over 350 just this
year, the second in the day. And I now turn it over to Rachel Maddow.

THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE
UPDATED.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120201cb.478

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript

                       Copyright 2015 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              Copyright 2015 MSNBC


                               14 of 24 DOCUMENTS


                                     MSNBC

                           December 2, 2015 Wednesday

                    SHOW: THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW 9:00 PM EST

THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW for December 2, 2015

BYLINE: Rachel Maddow, Blake McCoy, Pete Williams, Jim Cavanaugh, Morgan
Radford, Jacob Soboroff

GUESTS: Alex Vasquez, Daniel Danelski, Jason Leopold

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 10218  words



HIGHLIGHT: MSNBC`s coverage of the mass shooting in San Bernardino, California.


RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: Chris, thanks to you at home for being with us
tonight. It is now 9:00 p.m. on the East Coast. It is 6:00 p.m. in San
Bernardino, California.

Where law enforcement officials are still dealing with what looks like a still
very active police situation tonight. This is obviously still an unfolding
situation, but the key questions that are outstanding are, number one, the
number of suspects.

We know that two people are dead, who are suspects in this mass killing today in
San Bernardino. We do not know if there were more than two people involved in
this incident. We also do not know if anybody still may be at large.

We were told that a third person has been detained. We do not have any
information as to whether or not that person was involved in this morning
shooting.

That`s key question number one. The number of suspects, and that leads,
obviously, to the question of whether or not this is over. Whether or not
there`s anybody else who`s going to be taken into custody.

Key question number two, explosives. We`ve had vague information from law
enforcement officials that there may have been explosives found at the initial
sight of the mass killing this morning, and that there may have been -- they
intimated that there may at least suspicious, possibly explosive material at the
SUV, at the vehicle, where the two known suspects are dead.

The third key question, the third key question is motive, of course. We have no
information whatsoever about whether or not -- whether there is any known motive
here. The only intimation we have had about motive at all is from a
representative from the FBI, who had said earlier, flatly, we do not know if
there`s any reason to believe this is terrorism.

He amended that statement, sort of shaded that statement, in a press statement
moments ago, still without being definitive, by saying that they are re-advising
their earlier thoughts on the question of whether or not it is terrorism. He
said, it may be, it may not be. They do not know.

But clearly, the blanket statement that they had no information as to whether or
not it was terrorism has been shaded a little bit this evening, thus raising
that prospect, which has additional implications in terms of believe it or not
this matter is over.

So, again, a lot of stuff that`s very important to know here, is stuff that we
do not know. In terms of what we do know, it`s a pretty short list. Shortly
after 11:00 a.m. local time in San Bernardino, some number of shooters, possibly
two, possibly as many as three shooters opened fire at what`s called the Inland
Regional Center. It`s a large facility. It`s a social services facility that
serves people with developmental disabilities and their families.

We do not know if that facility was targeted for any specific reason. We have no
information on that one way or the other. It is hard to imagine a specific
motive anybody might have, terroristic or otherwise, for targeting a social
service facility that serves people with developmental disabilities and their
families.

That said, the president and CEO of that facility said the shooting happened in
a conference area, basically, a large conference room, within that larger
facility. It`s believed that a shooter or more likely, shooters, entered that
facility, entered that large conference room, armed with what police describe as
long guns. We don`t have further confirmed description about the weapons used
beyond that.

The police chief of San Bernardino said tonight that when they did find two dead
suspects in an SUV, about two miles from the site of the shooting tonight,
several hours after the shooting had been concluded, they did find what he
described as assault-style weapons on them, which would imply semi-automatic
rifles as opposed to bolt-action rifles or shotguns. We had been thinking over
the course of the day that when we did finally get weapons information, it would
be something like that, because of witness reports about the number of bullets
that were fired and the pace of firing.

It sounded like we were going to hear, it was semi-automatic weapons. We had
heard from police that it was long guns and indeed the police in San Bernardino
confirming tonight that when those two suspects were found dead in the SUV,
either shot by police or shot at their own hand, we don`t know, they were armed
with assault-style rifles, which would be semi-automatic guns.

Some witnesses from the shooting this morning say the suspects or suspects were
wearing masks and possibly body armor or at least some type of upper body gear
that looked tactical. Just on an anecdotal level, it`s very hard to tell,
especially if you`re just a lay observer and you don`t have technical expertise
in the matter, it`s very hard to tell whether or not somebody is wearing a
bulletproof vest. A lot of tactical gear or even load-bearing vests can look
like bulletproof -- or body armor, excuse me.

But witnesses describe at least something that looked like tactical gear if not
body armor. The quote from the police chief at the press conference they gave
today was that the shooters looked like they came prepared.

We believe from the victims that most of the people who were killed and wounded
were killed and wounded in one pretty confined area, in that one conference
center area of the Inland Regional Center. We don`t know exactly what happened
there, but whatever unfolded there left at least 14 people dead and at least
another 17 people wounded.

Now, in terms of explosives, there had been intimations today that the police
had had bomb squad type responders obscene and that there had been some sort of
device or devices found at the site of the mass shooting. A short time ago, the
police chief confirmed that a potential explosive device was also found at the
scene of the mass shooting, at Inland Regional Center. Again, the police are not
being specific about that, but they said they believed it to be an explosive
device.

At some point today, again, the police chief has been a little bit elliptical in
the way he has described this. The impression that he has given in his press
statements is that police received some sort of tip or followed some sort of
lead to end up at a house in Redlands, in nearby Redlands, California. These are
all nearby cities, all part of what`s called the Inland Empire, which is
basically due east of Los Angeles.

And at this house in Redlands, police were investigating something and something
happened that led to a pursuit of police following, at least two people, in a
dark-colored SUV. This was about five hours after the shooting at this point. It
was around 3:15 p.m. local time, and police located what they believed to be the
suspect`s vehicle on the suburban street in Redlands, about two miles from where
the initial mass shooting took place.

We still don`t have official word on who those people were. We`ve received no
information about their identity. But, we do know, according to police, that
there was a gun battle with those suspects, on the street, in that gun battle.

Police say that one officer was injured, but it was not a life- threatening
injury, and the two people, there were two people in that SUV who were either
killed by police or who killed themselves. But they were dead, apparently, of
gunshot wounds inside the SUV. Police said that one of those people is a male
and one of those people is a female.

They said nothing else about them in terms of identifying them, other than to
say they were dressed in assault-style clothing and that both of them were armed
with assault rifles and with handguns. They made it seem like at least those
people were each armed with at least two guns. Expect that we may get more
specificity from police and law enforcement on that matter as the night goes on,
particularly because that scene around the SUV does appear to be a settled
scene, so presumably they`ll be able to give us more information about anything
they recovered there.

Now, it appears that in terms of those two suspects killed at that SUV, it
appeared that one was killed on the street right next to the SUV, possibly a
person either ejected from the vehicle or who tried to leave the vehicle. The
other person appears to have been killed in the backseat of the vehicle. Shortly
after that gun battle, SWAT team members could be seen trying to extract that
individual who was inside the car, out of the back of the car.

Now, as we understand it right now, I think we`ll get more detail on this,
hopefully later on when we get another press briefing from the San Bernardino
police department, but another person, a third person, was detained after that
gun battle. Again, two dead people in the SUV. A third person detained.

Now, it`s unclear at this time if that person is related to the mass shooting.
There was a lot of implication tonight, particularly just from the news
reporting of what was going on, and from people watching law enforcement
activity in and around this neighborhood in San Bernardino. It seemed that they
were searching for another suspect who was on the loose. It seemed at one point
that they were doing a house-to-house search.

But we now have definitive word from the San Bernardino police department, that
the two people in the SUV were dead. The third person who they were looking for
near the sight of the SUV shooting has been detained. Police are not saying
whether or not that person was involved in either the gun battle at the SUV or
the massacre, the gun massacre at the Inland Regional Center this morning.

But importantly, police are also not saying the total number of suspects they
believed committed that crime. So, with or without this third person in custody,
this third person detained, we don`t know if that means everybody who is a
suspect in this matter is in police custody.

Joining us now from near the site of this morning`s shooting, the inland
regional center in San Bernardino, is NBC News correspondent, Blake McCoy.

Blake, thanks very much for being with us. What can you tell us from where you
are tonight and this latest information?

BLAKE MCCOY, NBC NEWS CORRESPONDENT: I can tell you over the last few hours,
especially after that gunfight with those two suspects, the scene has calmed
down quite a bit. It feels like we`re moving into a second phase here, a more
investigative phase right now.

All of the lockdowns in this area have been lifted, although the attention is
still focused on that building where the initial shooting took place, because as
we did hear from police, there were some suspicious objects inside. At least one
of them suspected to be an explosive device. So, they are moving very slowly
around that building, trying to clear it. It`s now been seven hours since the
initial shooting here.

And, Rachel, at the beginning of the show, you said, we still do not know a
motive, which, of course, is true. Police in this latest press conference did
address one rumor, one thing that`s been reported widely today, which is there
was a holiday party of health workers that was taking place. They rent out that
conference facility. There was a holiday party of health workers taking place.

And they heard also reports that there was a person who was in an altercation
with people at that party and asked to leave, and the reports are that that was
the person who came back and opened fire on the conference center. That is what
police cannot confirm. But they did confirm that there was an altercation with
someone in that conference center who left right before the shooting took place.

MADDOW: And, Blake, two questions for you, just following up on that. Number
one, is it clear that all of the fatalities or at least most of the fatalities
were confined to a very specific location within that large social services
center where you`re outside right now.

Do we know anything about sort of the spread of the fatalities or if they were
confined to one spot?

MCCOY: It sounds to us that it was confined to that conference center. They
opened fire and then they left on their own, because they were gone by the time
police arrived. NBC News has spoken with the husband of one of the victims, one
of the survivors, who`s in the hospital, and he is relaying the information that
they came in, did not say a word, and started firing and then left.

So, it was all in that conference area. We saw those horrific images, though,
after the shooting, where triage centers had been set up in the middle of the
street to help the victims who survived.

MADDOW: Obviously, so many victims. We`ve got 14 dead and 17 wounded, so many
people who are in the place, in the space where the actual shooting occurred,
and hundreds more people inside that large facility.

One last question for you, Blake -- you mentioned about the device which the
police chief said tonight is believed to be an explosive device and obviously
you said law enforcement is treating that matter with extreme caution. Do we
know if they have detonated that device, if they have rendered it safe? Do we
know anything about how, basically, bomb squad response has taken place around
that potential device?

MCCOY: We do not. All we know they`re moving very slowly around that building
and they said the building is not secure, it has not been cleared. And we also
know that some suspicious objects were found around that SUV, where the
shoot-out happened, which you can, you know, it doesn`t take a brain surgeon to
figure out that`s why they`re moving so slowly around that house where the
search warrant was issued and where that police chase started, because if they
were in that house before the chase started, they`re operating under the
assumption that there could be more devices inside that home.

MADDOW: Blake McCoy, NBC News correspondent -- Blake, thank you. I know we`ll be
checking back in with you later.

Joining us now, NBC justice correspondent, Pete Williams.

Pete, I understand you have some breaking news you`ve just learned about
potentially a name for one of the suspects?

PETE WILLIAMS, NBC JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Rachel. Just so -- I may have to
stop here for a moment and take a call here, Rachel, but let me just say that
several law enforcement officials have told us that one of the attackers is an
American citizen named Sayeed Farook. And there is some connection between that
name and the house that they`re searching in Redlands, California, which is
about 70 miles from L.A., about 10 miles from San Bernardino. So, that`s one
piece of information.

The second thing is, Rachel, you heard the FBI special agent in charge out there
in L.A. say they couldn`t rule out terrorism, but he said it in such a way that
seemed like maybe they were thinking more about it than they were earlier.

Here`s the way I understand that. That the early direction that the police were
going in is the possibility that this was some kind of workplace dispute, and
this was based on witnesses saying that one person - - you heard the police
chief talk about this. One person came in, got mad, and then came back, and the
theory was that perhaps that touched off something and that is what led to the
shooting.

For several hours, law enforcement people have been saying to me, does that
really make sense? Doesn`t that seem a bit fishy? That you would get mad at your
coworkers and come back with two other people and you all dressed in assault
gear, with assault rifles and a getaway car and you would be willing to kill
people right in front of your eyes? Does that seem like an escalating argument?

So, they`ve always thought -- or they now think there must have been something
more to this. What the "more" was, they still don`t know. And they`re hoping
that maybe they`ll find some answers in this house in Redlands that they`re
searching, searching very carefully, not because they believe there are
explosives there, but because they can`t be sure that there aren`t. And that`s
why they`re treating it that way.

MADDOW: Pete, in terms of this potential name for a suspect, Sayeed Farook, do
we know if that`s the person dead in the SUV or if that`s the person detained.
Do we know which person in that scenario that name pertains to?

WILLIAMS: No, we don`t, Rachel, and back to you.

MADDOW: Pete Williams actively reporting this out right now. Pete Williams,
obviously, NBC`s chief justice correspondent, reporting information, again --
it`s law enforcement sources telling NBC News that a person who may be involved
in this scenario is an American citizen, the name that we are hearing is Sayeed
Farook, and the way that Pete just described it there in that short report, that
he may be linked to the house that they are searching in Redlands.

Now, we`ve heard this from Blake on the scene at the site of the shooting, we
heard this from Pete in terms of talking about that house in Redlands, which may
have led to the name, the first name we`ve had associated with any suspects in
the this case. In both instances, one of the reasons that these are being
treated -- both as live scenes, but also as places where law enforcement are
moving very slowly and very cautiously and we don`t expect any definitive
information soon, is because of the potential involvement of explosives here.

Now, I don`t want to speak more definitively than we know from the reporting,
and what we have heard from law enforcement has been a little woolly on this
subject. There`s a lot of may be, could possibly be, could be investigated as
rather than declarative statements. But from what we are told by law
enforcement, it seems that there may have been an explosive device, at least
one, left at the site of the initial shooting this morning.

That is what Blake McCoy was just describing as why that initial shooting scene
is still being described as a live scene and why law enforcement is describing
those buildings as not cleared and they`re moving so carefully there, there may
be an explosive device or more than one at that scene.

We`ve also heard a description that there may have been something that was
described as a pipe bomb or something like a pipe bomb that was thrown possibly
during the course of the confrontation of the suspects in the SUV, which
resulted in a man and a woman dead in an SUV, after a gun battle with police,
which lots of shots were fired and one officer was injured. There`s two reports
of explosive devices or potential explosive devices.

We`ve also had the San Bernardino police chief describe suspicious items around
the SUV. Again, not stating definitively, but intimating that those may have
been explosive devices, or that they are worried that they might be. Asked
directly if the suspects had suicide vests, the police chief said he had not
heard that.

The other instance which they are considering at least the possibility of either
booby traps or other explosive devices of some kind, the potential of
explosives, is at this house in Redlands, which apparently led to the SUV chase
and led to the SUV shoot-out, and to the dead suspects, and that also may have
led to the first name, according to Pete Williams, that can be associated with
those suspects in this case. Again, an American citizen, Sayeed Farook.

Joining us now is NBC News law enforcement analyst and former ATF agent in
charge, Jim Cavanaugh.

Jim, let me just ask you, in terms of what I just summarized about potential
explosive devices and what we know about weapons and continuing threats -- does
that comport with what you understand tonight?

JIM CAVANAUGH, NBC NEWS LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: Right, Rachel, exactly. You
see, what would happen is, you treat the scene of the mass murder with any
package found there, as if it could be an IED or a homemade bomb.

And so, you just methodically, you know, if everybody`s wounded, day come in
with the bomb squad, they have robots and x-ray machines and they can check that
out.

Now, the house at Redlands that we described and you showed earlier, they forced
a door with a ram on the front of the bearcat SWAT vehicle and they`re going to
go in there as well with robots. This is maybe, looks like the house where the
shooters went to, the man and a woman who are deceased in the SUV, were picked
up on police surveillance leaving. So, that`s only -- I looked on the map --
that`s only a 15-minute drive. From San Bernardino to Redlands, a 15-minute
drive away.

So, if they went home, they could have had a third actor with them, who could
have got of that location. So, SWAT has to be careful about that. And the left
again, at leas the man and women left, we know, maybe more, but at least they
left, because they`re now deceased. They could have went in there, Rachel, and
gathered up more ammunition and load it up again --

MADDOW: Jim, let me interject just for a second and it`s specifically on that
point. We`re now being told that police having previously said that some sort of
pipe bomb-type device was thrown at them, police are now saying that did not
happen.

So, in terms of what you`re just describing there, what might have happened at
that house, what they might have had stored at that house, what they might have
accessed at that house after the shooting and taken with them on the way to this
gun battle with police, police are now saying at this point that they`re no
longer claiming there was any sort of pipe bomb- type device thrown at police
after they left that house in Redlands.

CAVANAUGH: Right, exactly. So, they could have went there and got nothing. They
could have went there and got some food, you know, it`s four-hour break in here.
So, they could have went out and got some food, they could have went out and got
some ammo. They have got a camera, they got a lot of things to go back.

They were followed back to the scene and, of course, when they got closer, San
Bernardino PD engaged them and they had the shoot-out. So, they have to treat
the house also like, you know, there could be explosive devices in there and
that`s the methodical process. And once it`s free of any explosives, Rachel, and
what will happen is it`s going to be a forensics scene. And agents and
detectives want to get the computers, laptops, cell phones, anything in order to
get the cell phones off the bodies, who are these people and what motivated them
to do this.

And I think you were very on point, and as Pete was, this third person that ran
and jumped over the fence, is he an actor, a shooter, or is he just somebody
trying to get away from the gun battle between these two known killers and the
police and he ran through the yard. So, we just don`t know that, yet.

It`s still unclear, really, is it just these two people that were killers or was
there three or four. We really don`t know that, yet.

MADDOW: Jim, in terms of what we heard from Pete, he raised this interesting
issue, which actually is sort of -- it`s not -- I don`t want to say a
theoretical issue, but it`s about practice and the receive wisdom of law
enforcement.

Pete was saying the previous sort of working theory had been that there may have
been some sort of argument that happened at this gathering, at this sort of
holiday party or banquet at that event. It led to an argument, the person went
away, went and got help and weapons and gear and came back and shot the police
up. That had been sort of one scenario that had been floated today, described as
possibly what happened.

That led to some sort of theory that this could have been an extension of some
sort of workplace disgruntlement or something, and it just didn`t - - Pete was
saying, it didn`t seem to make sense to a lot of law enforcement minds, that
there was a disgruntled workplace environment situation here, that that you
wouldn`t necessarily be able to rope other people into it to help you commit
mass murder. That it seemed like something else that was coming from a different
mind-set.

When Pete described both that theory and law enforcement skepticism about it, I
wondered what your view was of that thinking.

CAVANAUGH: Well, I mean, that is the right view, in my estimation, at the time,
given the facts you know, as facts develop, you can see what may be possible.

Look, if these people were only 15 minutes away, a man and a woman, who may be
husband and wife or boyfriend and girlfriend or brother and sister, if they`re
only 15 minutes away, certainly the scenario of being thrown out and being bent
on revenge, if they`re close family members, and being able to drive 15 minutes
away, change, load up, get your rifles and your gear and go back and kill
everybody, as a revenge motive of workplace violence is not out of the realm of
possibility. Doesn`t mean it`s absolute.

The preparations, I think, is what sets you off from somebody being thrown out
of a meeting. But if somebody lives close by, you know, they could go back and
come back within an hour and do that. Of course, workplace violence, of course,
just massacring everybody, we`ve seen that happen before. Usually, we`ve seen
lone actors, but a family member, a close other, sometimes can be involved.

MADDOW: NBC News law enforcement analyst, former ATF agent in charge, Jim
Cavanaugh -- Jim, I know we`ll be back with you. Thank you very much.

I want to go back now to near the site of this morning`s shooting, to NBC News
correspondent Blake McCoy.

Blake, we were talking earlier about the possible presence of potentially
explosive devices on scene. Police say they`re now about to approach those in
some way?

MCCOY: Yes, a local police officer just came up to us and said, prepare for an
explosion. They didn`t want us caught off guard. They said, this will be a
planned explosion, and that`s because they`re preparing to blow up one of those
suspicious devices inside this Inland Regional Center.

So, clearly, after getting a closer look at it, it was suspicious enough that
they have determined that they need to detonate this device, neutralize it, so
to speak.

MADDOW: Blake, to be clear, have they -- they`ve told you that this explosion is
something that you are going to -- it`s going to be big enough that you are
going to know that it`s going on, even though, obviously, you`re outside the
facility? Or are they blowing it up outside the facility?

MCCOY: We are about two blocks away, but they said it could be loud enough that
we could hear it here. They didn`t want us caught off guard, and, of course, the
neighborhood around us has been on high alert all day, so any sound of explosion
would certainly have people rattled.

MADDOW: NBC News correspondent Blake McCoy, we will keep an eye on what`s going
on there, if that is, in fact -- if they are, in fact, going to have a
controlled detonation.

I want to go now to Alex Vasquez, he is a cameraman for KNBC who has been on the
scene all day and who has captured some of the most harrowing footage we have
seen.

Alex, thank you very much for being with us.

ALEX VASQUEZ, KNBC (via telephone): Good evening, Rachel.

MADDOW: What`s your location now and what`s your understanding of how this story
is continuing to evolve right now in terms of this being a live scene, Alex?

VASQUEZ: Rachel, I`m on the south end of the actual crime scene, on the south
end of the building. The way this played out, I happened to be out -- I cover
the Inland Empire, for Riverside County and San Bernardino County. I was about
two miles away when I heard the initial call on the police scanner. The calls
started coming of an active shooter inside a building, people have been shot.

So, I immediately drove my news van to the scene. And as I got here and got my
camera is when I started hearing gunshots. I heard a couple shots go off and I
started running towards the building.

By the time I got there, there was already people running from the building who
had been shot. They were basically collapsing in front of me. I saw one pickup
truck actually pull up and people jumped into the back of the bed of the pickup
truck, just trying to get out of the building, out of that area, and he drove
them, and all were wounded, drove them to the end of the street where
firefighters were waiting, they unloaded the pickup truck and several victims
got out of them.

Unfortunately, one of them actually that they put down in the triage location
where I was, ended up passing away.

MADDOW: Wow.

VASQUEZ: But it was a very chaotic situation when I got here. It was something
that -- you always say as a journalist, you want to be professional and do your
job, but you can`t help but try to want to help these people. I lent my cell
phone to a couple of the workers who wanted to call their family and loved one
to tell them they were OK.

MADDOW: Alex, so when you arrived, the gunfire you were hearing were from the
perpetrators? That was a law enforcement response that you were in the middle
of? That was the crime, that was the initial shooting by the perpetrators?

VASQUEZ: I believe so, Rachel. I was still about a half block away when I parked
the van. I didn`t want to pull up on to the crime scene, because I could see a
line of law enforcement coming behind me. I didn`t want to block the roadway.

By the time I parked and was reaching for my camera, I heard three to four
gunshots one after another after another, and I don`t know if it was law
enforcement or it was the actual shooters, but I ducked down and grabbed my
camera and started running towards the building.

MADDOW: Alex, because you have been there from the very, very, very beginning,
one of the things we`re watching, part of the reason we`re all still live on
this tonight is because it does still feel like it`s an active scene. We`ve got
the police on site at -- at the site of the initial shooting, saying they`re
about to do a controlled detonation of a device they believe may be an explosive
device that was left on scene. We`ve also got a very active police scene at a
house in Redlands, which they believe is linked to people who end up deceased in
that SUV a few miles from the shooting scene.

As you`ve seen this unfold over the course of the day, is it your sense right
now that things are wrapping, that things are under control, or does this feel
like this is still an unfolding, still spreading situation?

VASQUEZ: I think it`s still unfolding, to be honest with you, Rachel, I`m still
seeing a lot of law enforcement driving up and down the streets, very quickly,
I`m looking at the sky and seeing at least a few helicopters, not just media, I
can tell they`re law enforcement, they`re flying a little lower.

So I don`t think this is controlled quite yet. Listening to the police scanners,
I`m hearing a lot of people calling in, saying that they found something
suspicious in the backyard, that was close to the building. So, there`s a lot of
speculation still going on.

I just talked to a couple of law enforcement friends who were here at the scene.
They told me, it`s not quite over, it`s not clear yet. There may be someone else
out there that we`re looking into. I think this is going to be a long
investigation, an ongoing investigation all through the night.

MADDOW: KNBC cameraman, Alex Vasquez, I appreciate you still being with us so
many hours into this. Thank you.

VASQUEZ: Thank you.

MADDOW: Joining us now from Loma Linda Medical Center in San Bernardino is NBC
News correspondent Morgan Radford.

Morgan, thank you for being with us.

I understand the medical facility where you`re at both is a site where a lot of
the wounded have been brought today, but also, it`s a site where there was a
bomb threat at the hospital, after some of the shooting victims had already been
brought there. Is that the case?

MORGAN RADFORD, NBC NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Rachel, I was standing right here when
that bomb threat was called in, because as the sirens are continuing and all
these details are emerging, one thing that all sides seem to state is their
support for the victims here. Five adult victims were brought here, two in
critical condition, two in fair condition, and one whose condition is still
being assessed.

At 2:30 p.m., while again as I mentioned, we were standing here, a bomb threat
was called in right behind me, but than an hour later after a K-9 crew came in
to assess the situation, they lifted the ban to realize that this really was not
a credible threat. The office right here at the hospital did say that they are
not expecting anymore victims from today`s shooting to appear tonight, and they
said tomorrow, they will continue treating them, business as usual.

MADDOW: NBC News correspondent, Morgan Radford -- Morgan, thank you for that.

That`s such a strange side bar story to this today, to have a bomb threat at the
hospital in the middle of all of this, even though it was cleared, just a very
rattling development.

And, of course, today`s shooting in broader context, comes just five days after
last mass shooting in the United States, which was last Friday, November 29th,
that was the lone gunman in Colorado Springs, Colorado, who killed three people
and wounded nine others at a Planned Parenthood facility there.

Before that one, the last huge stop all other news mass shooting story was a
month before the Planned Parenthood one. It was the Umpqua Community College
shooting at Roseburg, Oregon. That was a single shooter, nine people killed,
nine injured.

Before that, nine people killed in South Carolina, at an African- American
church. Those nine people targeted and killed because of their race.

Before that, Isla Vista, California, May of last year, remember that one? Yes,
right, six people dead in that one, seven wounded. The young man who mounted
that assault there killed himself as well.

September 2013, it was 12 people killed, 3 injured at the Washington Navy yard.
Before that, it was not just our country that stopped, but a big portion of the
world stopped when 20 first graders and 6 staff members and teachers were killed
at Sandy Hook Elementary School. That was December 2012.

And those are just kind of the front of mind ones, right? Those are just some of
the recent American mass killings, gun massacres that at least temporarily
brought all other news to a halt. Those are just the ones you can remember
without thinking too hard. There are tons more mass shootings.

Today`s incident is the 335th or possibly the 336th this year -- the 336th time
this year in which at least four people were shot and killed or shot and wounded
in a single incident this country. More than 300 this year so far and the year
still has a few weeks to go, because what`s called a mass shooting is almost
literally an everyday occurrence in the United States now, even massacres in
which there are large number of fatalities, they happen frequently enough, we
don`t even remember them all, without a reference list to look at, just in the
couple of years.

But even with that pattern, there is one way in which today`s mass shooting
high-fatality gun massacre absolutely does not fit any recent or historical
pattern in the United States. And that is the very unusual fact that today`s
shooting is thought to have been committed by multiple shooters. I mean, of all
the high fatality mass shootings in modern U.S. history, and there have been a
lot, there are only a couple for which there was more than one shooter.

The Columbine High School shooting in April of `99, that was two high school
student shooters, they killed 13 people. There was a middle school shooting in
Jonesboro, Arkansas, in 1998, where an 11-year-old and a 13- year-old worked
together to shoot and kill five students and teachers.

Other than those two instances, though, of school kids shooting up their own
schools, the only other one I know of, with multiple shooters, was an attack
back in 1983 in Seattle, where a gambling club got robbed. And in the course of
that robbery, the three robbers killed 13 people at that club. But other than
those very unique instances, out of all of the mass shooting, high-fatality
number of massacres we have had in this country in modern times, there just
aren`t high-fatality count mass shootings where more than one person commits the
massacre. It is almost always one person.

But police reports tonight suggest it`s multiple shooters here. That appears to
be what happened in San Bernardino today. And, obviously, that has led to fears
today that this might have been a terrorist attack, that there might have been a
terrorist motive for this attack. The FBI is certainly getting -- dismissing
that prospect less this evening than they had been earlier today. They had
previously been totally agnostic on the subject of whether or not this might be
terrorism.

Tonight, the special agent in charge in southern California intimating that
police and law enforcement are looking more seriously at that prospect than they
might have been earlier in the day, although we don`t know why. Honestly, in
terms of firm information, we have no information one way or the other about
whether or not it might be terrorism.

And, of course, if it`s terrorism linked to a larger organization, that is
important in terms of whether or not this is an ongoing subject, whether this is
an ongoing incident, whether or not this is linked to something that is still
operational. Whether or not it`s terrorism, the motive is always important at
one level in terms of us understanding what happened here.

But at a human level, regardless of a motive, the human toll here is just
enormous. With 14 people killed and 17 wounded, this is the deadliest mass
shooting in America since Sandy Hook. It`s one of the top ten deadliest gun
massacres we`ve ever had.

Joining us now from San Bernardino is MSNBC correspondent, Jacob Soboroff.

Jacob, what`s happening where you are now?

JACOB SOBOROFF, MSNBC CORRESPONDENT: I`m a little less than a mile and a half
away from the Inland Regional Center where the shooting happened this morning.
The street there called Cooley (ph). They blocked off this neighborhood, these
officers just told me they`ve evacuated the neighborhood right up the street.

This is the second neighborhood I`ve been to over the course of an hour that has
been completely shut down. No in, no out. You`re not seeing the kind of tactical
officers we saw on this corner a little while ago, but in full military regalia,
assault weapons drawn, gunners out on top of these tactical vehicles.

And they are searching basically block by block. We don`t know what they`re
searching for, but to echo Blake McCoy who you`ve heard a little while ago,
they`ve given us a heads up about potential explosives in the area. And our
previous location actually told us to take shelter. We are further away now from
the search that was going on than we were just a little while ago.

MADDOW: And, Jacob, when they moved you and told you that they were concerned
enough that they wanted you in a different place than they already were, did
they tell you, we`ve identified explosive devices, did they say, we`re
investigating that possibility. It`s possible there are explosives and that`s
why we feed you to move.

How definitive were they?

SOBOROFF: It was actually sort of a very quick, aggressive posture by the
officer, sort of saying, explosives, take shelter. It wasn`t, we may or may not.
You know, from my perspective, I can`t answer that for you, Rachel. But what I
can tell you, they continue to push people back from these searches that are
ongoing. So much so that they`re telling all of the residents in the
neighborhood behind me they`ve got to leave that area.

MADDOW: Jacob Soboroff, MSNBC correspondent, thank you very much.

In 1969, California passed a will called the Lanterman Act. California State
Assemblyman Frank Lanterman was an institution. He never married, famous for
wearing the same brown suit every single day. He was such a workhorse. He was so
devoted to his job as a legislator and he passed so much consequential
legislation that they called him "Mr. California".

When Assemblyman Lanterman was horrified by terrible living conditions at one
California state hospital, he put forward legislation to give rights to people
with developmental disabilities and to set up a statewide infrastructure
throughout California to respect those rights, to help people with developmental
disabilities, to support them and their families, and the Lanterman that he
wrote was signed into law by then-California Governor Ronald Reagan, in 1969.

That law was way ahead of its time. It established in law that people with
disabilities and conditions like autism and epilepsy and cerebral palsy, they
and their families have the right to receive support and services so they can
live full lives with all the dignity they deserve. So that`s how California got
this statewide mandated by law network of regional centers to provide social
services and help to people with developmental disabilities and their families.

This is a map that shows where they`re all located throughout the state. There`s
21 facilities, because they`ve divided up the state into 21 regions and each
region has one of these centers. And this one in the Inland Empire, this is the
one that was the site of this mass shooting today, and it`s believed to be the
largest one of these 21 facilities in the state of California, the Inland
Regional Center. It was created by that act, by the Lanterman Act, this was
passed in 1969 and signed by Ronald Reagan.

This facility in San Bernardino serves more than 30,000 people in the Inland
Empire, in this area around San Bernardino and Riverside counties, due east of
L.A. Again, more than 30,000 clients and they`ve got more than 700 staff at that
facility. So, you`ve sign these aerial views all day and got an idea, but this
is both a very big facility and a very busy facility.

Part of the mission of these facilities is that they provide lifelong care. If
you have a developmental disability or somebody in your family does, they will
provide social services to you and they`re mandated that they must, by law, from
the time that you are born, until the time that you die. And so, it is
multi-generational services, where they bring in people`s families in a way to
support them through all different challenges of life with disability.

And so, these are busy, busy facilities, big, with a lot of comings and goings.
And the sheer size of that facility and the complexity, and the well-used-ness
of that facility is part of the reason why it has taken hours and hours and
hours to even partially clear that location tonight.

To get through there to make sure there weren`t anymore suspects still in the
facility, to make sure all the dead and the wounded were recovered. To make sure
all the survivors were brought to safety. And tonight, even parts of that
facility are still not cleared, as they say, they are preparing to carry out
controlled detonations of what they believe are improvised explosive devices of
some kind. One or more, that they have found on site.

Joining us now is David Danelski. He`s a report for the "Press Enterprise"
newspaper in Riverside, California, and he was caught up in the middle of this
afternoon`s shoot-out between police and at least two people suspected of
carrying out today`s shooting.

Mr. Danelski, thank you very much for being with us. I appreciate your time.

DAVID DANELSKI, PRESS ENTERPRISE (via telephone): Rachel, how you doing?

MADDOW: I`m good. I`m sure I mispronounced your last name. Can you say it for
me?

DANELSKI: Danelski.

MADDOW: I`m very sorry.

DANELSKI: That`s OK.

MADDOW: Can you tell us what you ended up in the middle of when you found
yourself at the site of this shoot-out today?

DANELSKI: Yes, we sent a lot of reporters out to San Bernardino to cover the
story and I was going to different parts of town. I was actually at a community
center where families were waiting for loved ones to be bused back from the
facility where the shooting occurred. And a lady there talking to people on the
street said she had heard that there was a sighting of the SUV that the suspects
were in in a different part of the city and she got this through a text of a
friend who was there, said that they`re in a lockdown in this other part of
town.

So I went to check that out. So I was driving to this other part of San
Bernardino and on my way, I noticed I saw two or three police officers with
lights blazing, heading in a different direction, and I thought, I wondered what
was going on. Police were crawling all over town, hundreds of police cars were
all over the place, but this seemed like something -- my reporter`s instinct
kicked in.

They turned on San Bernardino Avenue, a big wide street, and the next town east
of Redlands. And then I heard what sounded like thunder or something ahead of
me, driving 30 miles an hour, and I heard kind of a whipping sound in the air.
And it was really strange, I didn`t recognize it as anything, but I figured
later it must have been bullets flying.

I pulled over the car and I grabbed my camera and I started walking to where I
saw some police kind of looking towards a house on the other side of the road
and then I heard gunshots again, a little bit confusing as to what`s going on. I
walked up the block, about half a block to get closer, and then I looked behind
me and there were waves of police officers with guns drawn.

Police of all different stripes, all different agencies, different cities,
county people, state police, you know, California highway patrol, all with guns
drawn. And then shooting erupts again, and everybody gets down, I crouch behind
the police car and one officer yells at me to get down.

And we -- and I managed to, you know, take a few pictures, and I kind of worked
my -- when there`s a lull, I kind of worked my way across the street, trying to
get away from where the shooting is, between different police cars, and I
finally found in the front yard where there was a block wall and I laid down on
that, and waited for that, and there was a long silence. And then, what was
actually an even scarier police officer encounter, two police officers came up
at me with guns drawn, I yelled back, I`m a reporter, they yelled, what are you
doing here? I said, I got caught up in it, I wasn`t trying to do anything, I was
just here. And they let me go.

And I went to one house down, and there was a couple people on a porch and they
let me into their backyard and I waited it out there. After about a half hour
there, a police officer came to the house and asked everyone to stay inside.
They said that they had found a bomb and they were going to detonate the bomb
and they didn`t want anyone to get hurt, so everyone should go inside and they
were also looking for more bombs, and you could see police officers looking
under cars and whatnot.

And this officer, what are you doing with a notebook and a camera? I said, well,
I`m a reporter. And he said, well, I could get you out of here.

So, he escorted me out of the crime scene and about a block away, there was
yellow tape, and the very first reporters were arriving, TV people and whatnot,
and then once I got behind the yellow tape, you started seeing heavy artillery,
tank-like SWAT units coming in and things like that.

MADDOW: David, in terms -- when you -- throughout this entire process,
particularly when you first arrived on the scene and as you say, pretty sure
what you were hearing was bullets whipping by, how much of a view did you have
of not just the police response, but the suspects, in terms of who was shooting
at police, who was on the other side --

DANELSKI: I never saw -- in this whole ordeal, I never saw the suspect s or
their car. Just shooting going on in the area I was. And I think I was just
behind it enough not to see the action. And they -- and I could see the police
officer were pointing their guns and directing it towards a house or yards on
the north side of the road, and I think that the suspects were taking cover
somewhere off the road.

But I didn`t see, you know, their vehicle or any other vehicle I could tell,
anything. There was a lot of shooting going on, and it was very scary, because
you didn`t know if you were -- which side of a car to duck behind. You know
where it was coming from.

MADDOW: You know you`re in the middle of something, but you`re not sure what the
polls of the two things you`re in the middle of.

DANELSKI: Yes. And police were running by, but more than anything, it was just
the waves -- just waves of law enforcement, guns drawn, agitated people, you
know, professional, but everybody`s, you know, scampering about. And it was a
very high-stress, difficult situation. And a situation that wasn`t comfortable
to be in, by any means. It was very scary because I didn`t know what was going
to happen.

MADDOW: David Danelski is a reporter for "The Press Enterprise", caught up in
today`s shootout between police and suspects in San Bernardino.

David, what you went through was, indeed, very stressful with, and you`re going
to continue to feel that stress for a long time. Take care of yourself. And I`m
sorry you ended up in the middle of it, but thank you for telling us about it.

DANELSKI: OK, thanks for talking to me. You have a good day.

MADDOW: Thank you.

MADDOW: Let`s listen in right now to KNBC`s coverage. They`ve got a reporter at
that house in Redlands, California, that we`re looking at here. I`m sorry, can
we --

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: -- also interesting, she said, they had pipes that looked
like pipe bombs in the black SUV. They had things that looked like fuses, and
she compared that to the Tsarnaev brothers during the Boston marathon bombing,
where they appeared to have pipe bombs that they threw at officers there. They
were not the real deal.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: In this case, yes, not the real deal.

Let`s check back with Robert Kovacik (ph).

MADDOW: I was dropping in on our L.A. station, KNBC. In terms of the -- in terms
of the fact -- the ways in which this is still a live situation tonight, it
seems like what you need to know is that there are two separate locations where
there`s continuing police activity and in which police are saying the scene is
not clear.

And in both of those instances, as far as we can tell, the reason police are
saying the scene is not clear does not have anything to do with potentially
suspects on the loose or additional gunmen who they are trying to subdue or find
or capture, as far as we can tell, and again, I will stand corrected on this if
this turns out not to be the case, but what we understand from law enforcement
is both of these scenes, this house in Redlands, California, and the site of the
initial shooting, the mass shooting this morning in San Bernardino.

The reason neither of those sites is being called clear is because of the fear
of explosive devices or the possibility of explosive devices at either or both
of those scenes, including the possibility, at least, at the San Bernardino
site, that there may be controlled detonations, some time soon. At least that`s
what they`ve told reporters on the scene, that they should suspect.

Joining us now is Jason Leopold. He`s an investigative reporter for Vice News.
He`s been reporting from outside the Inland Regional Center in San Bernardino
tonight.

Jason, we`ve just been trying to get -- come to grips and get specific about in
what ways that scene where you are in San Bernardino is still a live scene.
What`s going on there tonight and how does it compare to what you`ve seen there
over the course of the day?

JASON LEOPOLD, VICE NEWS (via telephone): Hi, Rachel. It`s still very much a
massive federal law enforcement, local law enforcement, and, you know, we`re
seeing Department of Homeland Security, police vehicles here. There is FBI. A
SWAT vehicle just left the facility.

And we`re getting some unconfirmed reports about the fact that there may be some
explosive devices, as we mentioned, improvised explosive devices still there.
What`s really interesting, Rachel, is that a number of residents in the area
here have gathered on the corner of orange about a block away from the Inland
Regional Center.

Many of these residents are a bit upset. They say that -- they told us that gun
violence in this neighborhood in this community is a regular occurrence. And
there are incidents that happen on a daily basis. They`re concerned that doesn`t
get obviously much attention. And this is getting attention.

There`s a woman out here right now who was killed in a drive-by shooting.
Several other people were shot that day. So, there`s a number of people coming
out sort of discuss the fact that this is not unusual for this community. You
get a sense they`re somewhat immune to this. There is certainly no fear that
this happened. And also they`re very used to these types of incidents.

MADDOW: Yes, it`s not normal for any community to have 14 dead in a single
incident.

LEOPOLD: No, not at all, but I was really struck by the comments by some of the
residents here who literally live, you know, half a block away from where the
shooting occurred.

MADDOW: Yes, absolutely. "Vice News" reporter Jason Leopold, it`s great to get
that on-site perspective. Thanks, Jason.

Chris Hayes was talking about this earlier this hour in a way that I thought was
really effective and important, which is to think about, as an American culture,
the way we focus on these mass shootings and we marvel at the frequency of these
mass shootings while basically studiously ignoring and posing no -- and
proposing no policy solutions to the everyday gun violence that in total claims
many more lives than these individual incidents like these do, that is an
American pathology right now, which we have not even started to come to terms
with.

But there are different do I understand of violence in our country. We have an
incredible number of high fatality mass shootings, like the one that we`ve got
today. We also have an incredible number of low fatality, meaning one or two
people killed, one or two people shot. Gun incidents, gun violence shootings
that happen all over this country every day in a way that barely constitutes
news in most communities and in communities where it`s very prevalent almost
never does.

Just a short time ago, our L.A. station KNBC interviewed a social worker who was
in the same building where this mass shooting took place today. She heard
gunshots and she was told to take cover and this is what she said happened.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Two gunmen came in and open fired on everybody. They just
started shooting everybody and just taking lives of innocent people in that
building and nobody knows why.

REPORTER: They didn`t say anything?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They didn`t say anything.

REPORTER: And he ran for cover under a table?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And the young man ran under the food table and stood there
until they could get out a side door or something he said and then they ran out.

REPORTER: Did you see victims when they were escorting you out. Did you get of a
sense of what was going on around you?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: When we were escorted around the building, I did see
clothing to some of the people, the gurneys with some of the paramedics and
firefighters. Just impeachment and a panic, frantic all over the place,
screaming and yelling, like a bloody warpath. It was just crazy.

REPORTER: Have you thought at all about how you try to get past this? I mean,
you`re a social worker, you deal with a lot of probably things that most people
don`t have to deal with. I know it`s still brand in new, but just wondering what
your thought process is.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: My thought process is I`m going to go to the gym and just
let the gym workout take me wherever it takes me. And I`m a prayful person, and
I just pray for all those families that lost their loved ones and never knew
that was going to happen today.

REPORTER: Do you know anyone today who did lose a loved one? Did you meet
anyone?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No, I did not. No, I did not.

REPORTER: And you believe also of those people were in that conference room from
what you understand?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, yes. Yes.

REPORTER: We thank you so much.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you.

REPORTER: Who`s waiting inside for you?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: My twins are. My kids are, yes, they are. A boy and a girl.

REPORTER: Were they texting information about what they knew of this mass
shooting. You said you didn`t have access to a television or radio. You logged
on to your phone. Were they communicating to you like mom, this is what`s
happening.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, mom, this is what`s happening. They had a black SUV.
The news saying there was three men. They got away, did you eat all day, are you
safe? My phone died so I couldn`t talk to them thereafter.

REPORTER: Going back to work?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We are closed until Monday from what I understand.

REPORTER: How do you explain this to your kids?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Never take anything for granted.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MADDOW: That was a woman named Linda Revis (ph) in the building during the
shooting today. It`s hard to know whether to call somebody like that an
eyewitness or a survivor when you have 14 killed and 17 people wounded in such a
huge, huge massacre today in San Bernardino.

I want to go back live now to near the site of the shooting to NBC News
correspondent Blake McCoy. We spoke with Blake a few moments ago because he had
been warned that police had warned that there might be a controlled detonation.

Blake, I take it that has not happened yet.

MCCOY: We had not heard it at least, Rachel. I can`t say it didn`t happen. If it
was small, we didn`t hear it. But we have certainly not heard anything yet.

I can tell you, the scene out here right now that law enforcement is working
with is they have three very active scenes. You have where this initial shooting
happened around 11:00 a.m. local time, 14 people killed, 17 injured at this
Inland Regional Center. Then two miles away from here, you have the shootout
with the suspects in the SUV. They were killed in the SUV. A police officer
injured. He will be OK.

And then you have that third site right now that law enforcement is at in
Redlands, California, which is only about six miles from here. The home that
these suspects were traced to, that led to that initial chase. So, three very
active scenes at this point, possibly suspicious devices from all of them.

So, they`re moving very slowly at this hour. Rachel, we should tell you that the
amount of law enforcement out here in San Bernardino is absolutely massive. They
came from the entire region from Los Angeles, which is an hour away. The ATF,
the FBI, it`s truly incredible the response because of this shooting.

MADDOW: And, Blake, just to be clear, you`re right to point out there are, in
fact, three sites being treated as live sites by police tonight, all of them, as
far as we can tell, being treated as live because of the possibility of
explosive devices.

From your understanding, Blake, do we have direct confirmation from law
enforcement sources on the record that it`s not just that they fear explosive
devices, but that they have they confirmed there are bombs that they think are
working explosives? Is it caution at this point? Or is it confirmed?

MCCOY: It is caution, but it sounds like informed caution. They say the devices
looked like explosives. So, it`s not just a suspicious package that we hear
about all the time. They said the device actually did look like explosives in at
least within of these locations.

MADDOW: NBC News correspondent Blake McCoy talking to us tonight from San
Bernardino Blake, thank you.

And again, that site where Blake is right now, which is near the site of the
shooting, the Inland Regional Center this morning, that is where police say they
are about to carry out a controlled detonation of something. Obviously, they are
treating it as if it`s a bomb.

I think Blake is being adequately and sort of perfectly specific there in
repeating what police have said, which is not that it is a bomb, but that it
looked like a bomb. They`re calling it a device. So we`ll see when that
detonation happens if it hasn`t happened already. We don`t know that it`s
happened. They said we should expect it at the Inland Regional Center.

We` also been told by police that the reason the site of the SUV where the
shootout with police happened and where two suspects are deceased, the reason
that`s being treated still as a live and uncleared scene is also again because
of devices they described as suspicious, which were around the vehicle. With the
implication being that those were also explosive devices.

And then, again, that third site, the house in Redlands, which we don`t know
exactly how police ended up at that house in Redlands, what led them there, what
the lead was or the tip was that they were following there. But there was a
connection between that house in Redlands, the two suspects that ended up in
that SUV, and the ultimate shootout that led to that two suspects being dead in
that SUV.

Again, they`re being described as a man and a woman, armed with handguns and
long guns. Those two suspects deceased. We don`t know if there`s another suspect
that police believe are at large. They do say they have one other person in
custody, but they will not say whether or not they think that person was
involved in today`s shooting.

Our continuing live coverage of the situation in San Bernardino continues now on
MSNBC. Stay with us throughout the night.

THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE
UPDATED.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120201cb.471

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SHOW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript

                       Copyright 2015 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                           Copyright 2015 MSNBC MSNBC


                               15 of 24 DOCUMENTS


                                     MSNBC

                           December 2, 2015 Wednesday

            SHOW: THE LAST WORD WITH LAWRENCE O`DONNELL 10:00 PM EST

The Last Word for December 2, 2015

BYLINE: Rachel Maddow, Lawrence O`Donnell, Jacob Soboroff, Pete Williams, Andrew
Blankstein, Blake McCoy, Morgan Radford

GUESTS: Norma Torres, Eugene O`Donnell, Candice DeLong, Jim Cavanaugh, Eileen
Richey, Kevin Knierim>

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 9577  words



HIGHLIGHT: Two suspects dead, one detained in San Bernardino mass shooting. FBI
official cites possibility of terrorism in San Bernardino shooting. One suspect
of San Bernardino shooting identified as Syed Farooq. Police in San Bernardino
raid suspect`s residence. Fourteen dead, seventeen injured in California mass
shooting. Police in San Bernardino say they have no known motive for mass
shooting. Police deploy bomb disposal robot near the shooting scene in San
Bernardino.


RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: There is another suspect that police believe --
suspects being dead in that SUV. Again, they`re being described as a man and a
woman armed with handguns and long guns.

Those two suspects deceased. We don`t know if there`s another suspect that
police believe is at large. They do say they have one other person in custody,
but they will not say whether or not they think that person was involved in
today`s shooting.

Our continuing live coverage of the situation in San Bernardino continues now on
MSNBC. Stay with us throughout the night.

LAWRENCE O`DONNELL, MSNBC HOST: Right now, police are still on the scene of that
mass shooting in San Bernardino where one explosive device has been found.

The shooting happened at 11:20 a.m. Pacific Time at the Inland Regional Center;
social services facility for people with disabilities, based on witness
statements.

The shooting took place in a conference room possibly during a Christmas party,
14 people were murdered, 17 people were injured.

Police searching for one of three shooters who fled in a black SUV. Four hours
later, police cars were seen at standoff with suspects in a black SUV.

Two of the suspects were killed in that shootout. Here is the San Bernardino
sheriff at a news conference a short time ago.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: But the suspects that were -- that are dead at the scene, one
is a male, one is a female. They were dressed in kind of assault-style clothing.

I think that it`s probably the best way to term it. They are -- they are both
armed with assault rifles, they are both armed with handguns, and there`s also
kind of some sensitive stuff around the vehicle.

They`re not real sure, we`re taking a very cautious approach to dealing with the
vehicle in case there is more explosives there.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: Authorities did not release the names or descriptions of the
suspects, but they said they did not yet know any motive.

Nbc News reports that one of the three suspects of the attackers was Syed Farooq
and a second is believed to be Farooq`s brother. The identity of the woman is
unknown.

At tonight`s news conference, the FBI assistant director in charge for Los
Angeles did not rule out terrorism.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I know one of the big questions that will come up repeatedly
is, is this terrorism? And I am still not willing to say that we know that for
sure.

We are definitely making some movements that it is a possibility -- we are
making some adjustments, start an investigation, it is a possibility but we
don`t know that yet.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: The FBI is currently searching Syed Farooq`s residence in Redlands,
California, which borders San Bernardino. Joining us now from San Bernardino is
MSNBC`s Jacob Soboroff. Jacob, what`s the situation there?

JACOB SOBOROFF, MSNBC CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Lawrence, right now we are at yet
another roadblock in the San Bernardino area.

This is the second neighborhood -- residential neighborhood I should say, that
has been completely evacuated of residents that we have seen tonight.

Earlier this evening, we were at a different neighborhood that had heavily armed
tactical military-style vehicles from the San Bernardino county sheriff`s
department.

And the common threat seems to be a search perhaps for explosive devices. We`re
hearing that about the Redland search.

And earlier tonight in San Bernardino, they were telling us, in fact, to take
shelter for potential explosive devices that they may or may not find when a
manhunt or it seemed was undergoing.

Just down this street now is Cooley Street. We don`t know exactly what is going
on here, but law enforcement officials continue to move residents from this
area, away from Cooley Street, just a block down that way.

And we`re just waiting to see what if and when they will be letting people,
Lawrence, back down that street.

O`DONNELL: And what about the search, the continuing search for the third
shooter. What do we know about that?

SOBOROFF: We would assume, Lawrence, if that`s what`s going on here in San
Bernardino. We`re only amazingly 1.4 miles away from where this incident took
place this morning at the Inland Regional Center.

And that`s where the bulk of this manhunt seemed to have been taking place
earlier this evening. It`s literally a walking distance from where this
incredible tragedy took place at 11:14, I believe was the first police call this
morning.

And still ongoing, again, just under two miles away from that location, it seems
that one would assume, but we cannot say for sure whether it`s a manhunt or a
search of just these residents for that suspect is still under way.

O`DONNELL: Thank you, MSNBC`s Jacob Soboroff in San Bernardino, thanks very much
for joining us. We are joined now by retired ATF agent and MSNBC analyst Jim
Cavanaugh.

Jim, we now have a name, you`ve been watching these developments since we
started our live coverage of this situation.

What about discovering the name Syed Farooq and that his brother is the other
suspect in this, the other male suspect, the female suspect we`d have no
identification on? What does that do to help put the pieces together here?

JIM CAVANAUGH, RETIRED ATF AGENT: Well, it helps a little bit and the fact that,
you know, to get people to commit a mass violent act like that, it would take
somebody very close to you.

And that could be somebody who is in a criminal organization, a criminal gang
organization or somebody related to you.

So, you know, someone that would buy into your reason for whatever the
motivation is behind the shooting, Lawrence.

So, I`m not surprised that we`re finding out brothers, we don`t know the females
connection, would not be surprised to find out it`s a wife, girlfriend, sister
and also a relation or also a relation.

So that may give us a little bit of insight into, you know, how you could get
three people to commit mass murder, but it doesn`t really tell us the actual
motive for the mass murder.

O`DONNELL: Jim, we saw how slowly and carefully the police moved today. Once
they closed in on something, they were moving very quickly to catch up with
these people.

Once they closed in on that SUV, even after the shooting when it was -- when it
appeared that they were dead, they were still taking these extreme precautions
with the vehicles they were using to approach that situation.

And we`ve just -- the "L.A. Times" is reporting now -- actually reporting ten
minutes ago that the coroner has still not removed the bodies from the locations
of the murders.

How unusual is that in a situation where you have those 14 bodies and the
coroner conducting this investigation for it to take that amount of time?

CAVANAUGH: Yes, it`s probably not that unusual, given the massive crime scene
that you`re dealing with.

They`re going to be under some pressure though to get in there and get the
pictures taken quickly and be able to get remains removed by the coroner.

You know, I`m sure, they`re working all night. But remember, they don`t even
have the situation settled as -- is there a third shooter loose in the
community?

So, that command post is really ramped up. But I think the activity we`re seeing
Lawrence is the commander is trying to decide, trying to uncover, finally decide
is, you know, who is loose?

Is this a brother loose? We have to find him and that kind of takes precedence.
But they`re going to have to work through the night and they do need to get
those people who have been killed out of there once they at least do a
photographic record of the crime scene, so they can move them.

O`DONNELL: And Jim, as we saw the day unfold, it seemed that the first theory
that the police were operating under was that this was a work place, rage crime
of some kind.

Possibly someone involved in that work place. Then that theory seems to have
drifted a bit tonight into the possibility of terrorism.

But we now know that Syed Farooq is listed -- there is a Syed Farooq who is
listed as an environmental health specialist working in the Inland Regional
Center.

Syed Farooq is also listed as the resident at 53 north center street in
Redlands, which is the house that`s being searched tonight.

And so we may have an employee of the center involved in this killing and the
motivations might come from outside the center. I mean, all things seem possible
now.

CAVANAUGH: No, that`s right. There`s a lot of questions like that, you laid it
out just right. I mean, it could be an employee issue or revenge issue.

How would you get other people involved? Well, they`re so close to you, a
brother, a spouse, a girlfriend, and also we do have proximity.

You know, we think that all this time, attackers are coming from a far distance.
This house in Redlands is maybe 15 minutes away, pretty an estimation not far
off of that.

So the report earlier that could -- they have been kicked out of a meeting,
could there be some feelings, really bad personal feelings against the group
because they were mistreated.

That could be shared by a brother or a spouse as well and then they would go
back, you know, and launch this attack. That`s certainly possible.

That would be more like a revenge motive. Could there be other things floating
around? You know, motives, Lawrence, don`t have to be just one thing.

Sometimes they`re mixed, and there could be a lot of things going around in
people`s lives in their heads that we don`t quite have that yet.

O`DONNELL: We`re joined now by Congresswoman Norma Torres, she represented San
Bernardino as a state senator, now represents California`s 35th congressional
district, that`s just west of San Bernardino.

Congresswoman Torres, I`m very sorry for what you and your community is going
through tonight dealing with this. But tell us about the Inland Regional Center
and how it serves that community.

REP. NORMA TORRES (D), CALIFORNIA: The Inland Regional Center is a key partner
in providing services for people with disabilities in the community.

They serve about 35,000 people and have 600 employees that come through that
facility every day, whether they`re working there directly or providing services
within the community.

So, this is a very tragic event for us in San Bernardino.

O`DONNELL: And does it have -- does that facility have the air of a government
office to it? I mean, if someone was interested in attacking a government
facility, state, local government or federal government facility in San
Bernardino, would that building have some attraction?

TORRES: Absolutely not. Like I said, the people that come to this facility have
severe disabilities, they`re coming there for services. If one wants to attack
the government, certainly we would not look to a place like this to do that.

O`DONNELL: And Congresswoman Torres, how do you expect the community to be able
to deal with the aftermath of this -- given that this is going to take a while,
it`s going to take a lot of patience.

Even just getting the names of victims, finding out who`s actually been injured
here as the "L.A. Times" has been reporting. The bodies have not yet even been
removed from the site of the murders.

It seems like this is going to be -- this is going to be a long haul for the
community.

TORRES: Absolutely. And I have talked to local representatives, a councilwoman
and a council member of San Bernardino, and as they explain to me, the
situation, it`s extremely somber.

The family members of the victims are, you know, very upset and they want
answers. It`s very difficult to try to put them off and say we are still
developing, and we`re still investigating.

The situation is very fluid right now, very difficult for us to give those types
of answers when people want to see their loved ones.

O`DONNELL: There`s some really heartbreaking stories coming out in local media
in Los Angeles, especially -- and some stories of great strength.

One young man was in there, hit with three bullets and he managed to call his
wife. He`s only been his wife of two weeks, called his father, said I`m OK.

He was able to get that cellphone message out and say that he was already being
taken care of by police.

Have you heard more stories like that of people who were in there, in trouble,
who were able to make cellphone calls and get the word out to their loved ones
that they were OK?

TORRES: Yes, I have heard several instances where people were leaving messages,
phone messages and family members are trying to get back to them because of the
situation of, you know, whether they`re at a hospital or being transported to a
safe location.

There`s been a lot of missed calls. So, you know, what I would say, be patient,
go to the center where, you know, it has been -- it has been organized to be
able to provide that type of information as to the status of their family
members.

O`DONNELL: Congresswoman Norma Torres of California, thank you very much for
joining us tonight, really appreciate it. We`re joined now here in the studio by
Eugene O`Donnell, former NYPD officer.

Eugene, describe the scope of the investigative apparatus that`s at work here
now and the various -- we have the coroner, for example, I just mentioned that.

That`s one investigation of its own with its own jurisdiction. We have local
police there, we have FBI, we have ATF. How is all that coordinated?

EUGENE O`DONNELL, FORMER POLICE OFFICER, NEW YORK CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT: Not
all is well, that has to be said. If you got moving pieces and moving parts and
you wonder how well information is imparted in the field.

Obviously, there`s an urgency here because the FBI has sort of left hanging out
there that this could be terrorism, which is a very significant announcement, so
hopefully, they could clarify that as soon as possible.

Law enforcement also nationwide is going to have to now -- they have to get back
in touch with the Muslim community to make sure there`s not copy cat incidents
against Muslims.

Because putting out terrorism so quickly can lead some -- lead to some bad
things happening in the short run.

O`DONNELL: Now, the big departments around the country, NYPD, LAPD, they are
trained for moments like this, situations like this.

San Bernardino, 60 miles east of Los Angeles, it`s kind of out there in the
middle of California, not the place where people would expect it.

If you ask me to guess where something like this was going to happen in
California, certainly wouldn`t have picked there.

A lot of us, they knew -- a lot of very easy escape roots out of there, root 10
is right there which can take you out to Phoenix and all the way to Florida.

This root 15 is right there to take you up to Las Vegas, you can go off in the
other direction up toward Malibu and up the coast, south to Mexico through San
Diego.

All instantaneous access to a different freeway that would take you in one of
those directions. So they had a lot of pressure on them, obviously, when that
manhunt started.

Have these people already made it a 100 miles from here, because it was hours
after the shooting before they were able to make contact with them and ended up
finding them within, you know, walking distance of where it all happened.

O`DONNELL: Right, and I mean, it`s the street cops actually did the frontline
here about --

O`DONNELL: Yes --

O`DONNELL: You know, bringing all these resources, but ultimately it`s street
cops that happen upon these people and have to engage them -- these guys
apparently, they were dead-ending, they were not intending to get out of there.

They stayed in the vicinity, it looked like they were going to go to war with
the police once the police encountered them.

O`DONNELL: Yes, I mean, it`s fascinating that they had masks and they had a
vehicle. They had what looked like intent and plan to escape.

And yet they came back into San Bernardino. I mean, that`s the remarkable part
of the story.

O`DONNELL: It really is. I mean, and this breaks kind of records in a way.
Usually, you don`t have two people or more than two people involved in these
mass killings.

You usually don`t have women involved. It`s a very rare event, I think the FBI
study said like 3 out of 160. So, you have three people, one, a woman engaged in
a mass -- in a mass killing.

So -- but it really is important, hopefully the FBI will clarify this.
Obviously, if this is an act of terrorism, it opens up questions as to whether
this -- you know, is it a cell? Is it other cell or is it just an act of
workplace violence?

O`DONNELL: And when you look at the equipment, you look at the way they were
ready to go here, it`s the kind of case where you immediately start to think of
who else was involved, what other help did they have?

O`DONNELL: Right, and I mean we think as a third, it sounds like there`s a
third, maybe there`s a fourth. You know, there`s pandemonium, it`s not a great
time to get accurate with the statements.

When people go --

O`DONNELL: Right --

O`DONNELL: And engage in a mass murder in these, you know, situations, so
there`s likely some stories that don`t necessarily, you know, they`re not
symmetrical.

You probably have a lot of --

O`DONNELL: Right --

O`DONNELL: Different story lines you have to pursue.

O`DONNELL: All right, let`s listen to a husband whose wife was inside the
building at the time of the shooting and what his wife said about one of the
shooters.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She had already barricaded herself and the co-workers inside
the building, but stands on the door, and that`s when she called me a little bit
before 11:00.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Did she see the gunmen description at all?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She just saw them from outside the window. Heavier set guy,
big gun. She told me he had a mask on and like with a bunch of things on his
chest.

So, I`m assuming he had like a bullet proof vest or something like that --

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Was he alone? --

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What are you going to do when you see your wife?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I`m just going to hug her.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: We`re joined now by Nbc News Justice correspondent Pete Williams.
Pete, we have you having a lead on the name, Syed Farooq on this, that`s now
being followed up and confirmed by the "L.A. Times" and other sources.

What more do we know about the suspects?

PETE WILLIAMS, NBC NEWS: Well, it`s a convoluted investigative trail, Lawrence,
as we understand it.

The witnesses that were in the room, in the Inland Regional Center said that
they thought they saw him come in, be nervous, leave and then after that, the
shooters came in.

O`DONNELL: Pete, can I just stop you there? When you --

WILLIAMS: Yes --

O`DONNELL: Say him come in, do you mean Syed Farooq?

WILLIAMS: I do --

O`DONNELL: Yes. Now, whether he was one of the shooters or not at that point,
they didn`t know. But there was a name, it was a lead.

It was the -- it was the lead that the police chief was talking about in the
very first news conference where he said we have some things to go on but we`re
not going to talk about them.

Partly because they had no idea where that would go. So that led them to a car,
and it also led them to this address in Redlands, California, with which he is
connected.

Authorities have now -- several authorities have now told us that as they get
further into this, they believe he is involved in this shooting, connected with
it in precisely what form they have yet to conclude.

For example, we don`t -- we cannot say ourselves that he is one of the two
people who were found in that SUV that was riddled with bullets earlier today in
which authorities later said a man and a woman were found.

We don`t know if he was one of those two. We don`t know if he is the third
person. We don`t know what the deal is with him other than authorities say they
believe he is involved in the shooting in some way.

That he may be the leader, he may have been one of the gunmen, they`re still
trying to nail that down. But so many officials have told us that they believe
he`s involved.

You`ve seen the search of the house connected to him in Redlands, so that`s part
of it. The fact is, that eight hours after the shooting, authorities still
haven`t identified everyone involved to their satisfaction.

They don`t know if others were involved, and they have no idea what the motive
is. You saw the FBI, special agent in charge in L.A. say that they haven`t ruled
out terrorism.

The only reason he said that we`re told is because they simply don`t know what
it is. So, they can`t say what it is if they don`t know what it is.

I`m told that there isn`t some additional evidence that points toward terrorism
like literature left by or things on social message, none of that.

They still don`t know what the motive was, it doesn`t certainly seem like
someone just walking in, getting mad, coming back with two friends who were
willing to kill a bunch of people.

It seemed much more planned than that, but why, they still don`t know.

O`DONNELL: And Pete, do we have it confirmed that Syed Farooq was employed at
the Inland Regional Center as an environmental health services specialist?

WILLIAMS: Let`s be very careful with this Lawrence, it`s a good question that
you ask. We know, we believe that a person named Syed Farooq was in fact in
essence a restaurant health inspector.

Whether that`s the same Syed Farooq who authorities say was involved in the
shooting, we don`t know.

O`DONNELL: And there`s a report indicating that Syed Farooq`s brother was also
involved in this. What -- how do we substantiate that at this point?

WILLIAMS: We`ve been told that by some authorities, but we haven`t confirmed it,
Lester, we`ve certainly heard that, but I don`t know.

And that`s -- it leads us to another -- it leads us to some incompleteness in
what the authorities have told us.

They`ve said that there were two people in that SUV and that a third person got
away and that third person was detained, but they don`t know what the role the
third person played in the shooting, whether he played any role or not.

Well, if that`s the case, then where is the fourth person if there were three
shooters, where is that other shooter? Were there four people involved?

I mean these are still -- you know, you think we`d know all the answer to all
these questions, but we don`t because the authorities don`t. It`s a very rapidly
unfolding investigation and these things take time.

O`DONNELL: Pete Williams, thank you very much for joining us and clarifying all
that for us, really appreciate it, Pete, thank you. We`re joined now again by
Jacob Soboroff who is in San Bernardino live.

Jacob, what`s going on at your location now?

SOBOROFF: Hey, Lawrence, so as you can see in our live shot right now, you`re
going to have a truck pass through in just a second.

But we are watching right in front of us probably about 300 feet a bomb disposal
robot pick up some type of material off the street.

And it looks like put it into a box, whether or not they`re going to detonate
that box, we`re not sure.

But obviously, there is a big concern here at the Inland Regional Center as well
and out in Redlands where they`re searching the suspect`s home about the
potential for explosive devices.

It`s something that they had also told me just a couple of hours ago when we
were in another nearby residential neighborhood in this area to be concerned
about explosives.

And I think you guys have this live picture right now of this bomb disposal
robot. Again, that`s about 300 feet away from us, putting some sort of material
into a box directly next to it.

O`DONNELL: Jacob, we do have the shot and we`re watching it. And is it true that
what we`re seeing as traffic is passing by, this situation as this is going on.

They haven`t -- they haven`t blocked traffic from passing that area?

SOBOROFF: A little bit, Lawrence, there. The traffic is blocked to that street,
but amazingly, yes, there is some cross-traffic coming perpendicular to the
street that this bomb disposal robot is actually on right now.

They`re waving cars through it, I see two black and white police cars, there is
not the aggressive police presence that we had seen earlier this evening, at
least at this intersection.

As I told you earlier in the hour, just another block away from here. Whether
it`s the manhunt or again, another search for a suspect or perhaps explosive
devices like the one we`re looking at right now.

There`s something else going on just a block up the road, but here directly in
front of us, all of a sudden, the black and whites put up, this yellow police
tape both on this side of the robot and on the other side, you can see it right
now, the arms extending.

And it looks like they`re going put some sort of material, whatever it picked up
from nearby to the (INAUDIBLE) in that box, hopefully just out of an abundance
of caution.

O`DONNELL: Jacob --

SOBOROFF: And it looks like it`s a backpack, Lawrence, I`m being told.

O`DONNELL: OK, what is the location -- I mean, we`ve seen a variety of locations
today, including the location where the SUV was stopped. What location is this?

SOBOROFF: This location is a mile and a half away from the Inland Regional
Center, and I would say, you know, perhaps, equal or plus or minus, just about
the same distance from the location the suspects were engage in the shootout
with law enforcement earlier today.

You know, incredibly, all of this is taking place within a relatively small
geographic area over the course of the day, starting at around 11:14 this
morning Pacific Time when that first call came in.

O`DONNELL: So, this location where the bomb disposal robot is right now is not
the same spot where they closed in on that SUV, but it is -- it is near that
spot?

SOBOROFF: That`s correct, Lawrence. And it`s also -- I would say, pretty close
to equal distance from the location of the shooting this morning where we`ve
heard reports of potential, you know, explosive devices being - - Blake
McCoy(ph), our colleague from Nbc News reported that in the last hour with
Rachel.

We`re now looking at this bomb disposal robot move slightly away from the box
here that`s on the ground, and that arms is extended in the air.

I`m trying to get a closer look at it, Lawrence, through our camera right now.
But it looks like a relatively small package that it`s got.

And they`re going to -- I think what`s going to happen is, they`re going to see
that arm extend downward and place whatever is on that robot into the box that
we`re looking at.

O`DONNELL: Jacob Soboroff, thank you very much for joining us live from San
Bernardino. Eugene O`Donnell, as you take a look at that bomb disposal robot
there, this is obviously an abundance of caution.

That`s exactly the way they should be treating anything that they see
mysteriously on anywhere near any of these locations.

O`DONNELL: Yes, no question about it, and actually people in the area, if they
see anything at all suspicious should call, they should continue to call until
they stand this down.

But it would be interesting to see how much the police know about the movements
of these people after these events and whether they`ve actually, physically
assessed any place they could be to make sure that they did not leave any
explosive devices or evidence or anything that would connect them to the crime.

Obviously, ultimately, there could be -- there can be -- is going to be a
criminal case here, and so that`s another concern. You`re going to have to
perhaps bring one or more people to justice.

And so, you know, if they were all dead, you wouldn`t have to be so careful, but
in this case, you (AUDIO GAP 00:01:46-50), they left behind or whether there`s
something they could engage with the public.

So, where were these guys in the period after this event, this kind of crucial
concern.

O`DONNELL: Joining us now is Andrew Blankstein, an Nbc News investigative
reporter and former "Los Angeles Times" reporter.

Also joining us is Candice DeLong, former FBI profiler. Candice DeLong, as you
see this bomb disposal robot going to work here, this is the kind of thing that
they have no choice about, I assume at this point.

If somebody says, hey, there`s a backpack by the side of the road there, there
is no police officer who should go anywhere near it.

CANDICE DELONG, FORMER FBI PROFILER: Yes, absolutely true. And I have seen these
bomb disposal robots in action up in Montana on a unabomber case. It`s too
dangerous for a human to do.

And the robot does the job very well.

O`DONNELL: And talk about what has to be developed here as Eugene O`Donnell was
just mentioning in terms of a (AUDIO GAP 00:02:54-58) be doing in terms of
anticipation (AUDIO GAP 00:03:02-08) --

DELONG: Evidence, one of the things that concerns me, there`s a report out of
San Francisco on news agency that says that the SUV used by the suspects was
rented from a car rental place on Monday by a man with a Middle Eastern name and
an employment verification returned information that he was a county employee.

Earlier in your broadcast, now a name is being mentioned, it looks to me like a
very good probability, obviously, reports earlier that somebody was at -- one of
the suspects was at the party and was asked to leave or got into a dispute and
left.

Maybe came back angry, obviously this was in planning for a long time. One of
the things in terms of what are agents on the ground actually doing now, they`re
following leads, they`re connecting the dots.

Did these people work? Was it just the three or four of them? Did they have any
kind of outside support? Things like that.

O`DONNELL: Andrew Blankstein, as we`re watching this bomb disposal robot, you
know, go to work here on what appears to have been a backpack.

Have you been -- have you been following the investigation all day, your
customers dealing with these authorities, did you sense a change in focus at
some point about what it was they were dealing with from a work place rage
incident to something else?

ANDREW BLANKSTEIN, INVESTIGATIVE REPORTER, NBC NEWS: I think it`s still open to
interpretations.

I mean, one of the things was that you did get some of those reports early on
that this could be a workplace violence.

But one of the things in covering these stories is that certain things slip out
at certain times. And I think the assistant director in charge of the FBI, L.A.
office gave (INAUDIBLE) one and to leave open the possibility.

You know, there was a lot of criticism, Lawrence, back in 2002. There was a
shooting at L.A.X. involving a suspect by the name of Mohammed Hadayet.

At that time, authorities came out, including the FBI within several hours of
that incident and said, we are ruling out terrorism. And, there was a lot of
criticism in that decision. I think this time around, given what we know about
what happened, and that is limited, because in the next number of hours they are
going to be trying to get a timeline together, geographic movement.

They are also going to try to get a sense of the background of anybody that was
involved or anybody that was connected to any of these suspects. So, I think as
we go on, what you saw today is that you are building out concentric circles,
but you are not trying to commit to any one theory at this point.

O`DONNELL: And, Andrew, you know Los Angeles well, covered it extensively. Talk
about San Bernardino, 60 miles east of Los Angeles. Talk about that police
department`s capacity for handling an event like this today.

BLANKSTEIN: One of the good things about law enforcement in southern California
is that generally speaking, there is a lot of cooperation not only between those
departments and their county sheriffs.

In this case, you saw San Bernardino city and San Bernardino County Sheriffs,
but you also saw cooperation immediate with federal authorities, the FBI, ATF,
Homeland Security. And, there is very good relationships out here.

And, whether it is the LAPD or the LA County Sheriffs, which obviously there is
a lot of crimes that have been in the news for those departments over time. Or
if you go down to San Diego, Ventura, there is just a lot of those
relationships. They drill together.

And, so, I think that was one of the things that you saw. There is always going
to be sometimes, where people kind of step on each other`s toes, but in this
instance it appears that they worked well together.

O`DONNELL: And, that stepping on the toes, that has traditionally been an issue
for some departments when it comes to federal authorities coming in. But, in the
age of terror, now that we are dealing with the possibility of terrorism
incidents, has that changed a lot? Are the local departments happy to see the
FBI, the ATF come in, Homeland Security whenever something like this is
suspected as possibly being terrorists?

BLANKSTEIN: I think it depends on the department, but largely speaking, people
now that you cannot -- given the geographic layout of Southern California and
the limits in terms of personnel, that you really do need to work together,
whether it is with federal partners or departments near you.

And, especially when you look at L.A. County, which has 88 cities, there has
been in a last decade and a half, a real move to try to integrate those
departments more when it comes to cooperation. And, you see it on various kind
of large scale crimes, but it is definitely improved, certainly in the time I
have been covering law enforcement out here.

O`DONNELL: NBC`s Blake McCoy joins us now live near the scene of today`s
shooting in San Bernardino. Blake, what is the situation there now?

BLAKE MCCOY, NBC NEWS CORRESPONDENT, SAN BERNDINO: Lawrence, this is where it
all began around 11:00 A.M. local time this morning. And, remarkably, eight
hours later, we are still being kept two blocks away. And, that is because they
have yet to secure, to fully secure that Inland Regional Center.

About an hour and a half ago, we had a local police officer come up to us and
say, "If you hear an explosion, it is because we found a device that we deemed
suspicious enough, a possible explosive device to detonate it, to neutralize
it."

We have not actually heard an explosion, so we do not know if that happened, but
they were preparing to neutralize some sort of device. This is just one of three
active crime scenes right now.

And, I believe we have some video to show you of the evacuation around the time
it happened. Someone inside that Inland Regional Center taking video with their
cell phone as people were being rushed out. This is a large center.

Three story building. Three wings to the building. Based on the organization`s
Facebook page, there is at least 670 people, who work in the building, not to
mention any patients that were there as well. So, a frantic scene as they were
moving everyone out.

They moved them across the street to the golf course and we saw them checking
people is I.D.s to make sure that these were, in fact, people evacuating the
building and not one of the shooters. So, right now, three active crime scenes
Lawrence, and they are still working to neutralize suspicious devices, we are
told, at all three of them.

O`DONNELL: Blake, what do we know about the timing of that evacuation? And, what
I mean is the timing of the shooting begins around 11:20 A.M. How soon do police
arrive? What makes the shooters flee the scene? Why do they flee the scene? Is
it because the police have arrived? And, then how long does it take after they
have fled the scene for the evacuation to occur?

MCCOY: That is a good question, because if you remember at the Colorado Springs
shooting last Friday, the police arrived and the suspect was still there. And,
there was this long drawn-out shootout for five hours. That was not the case at
all here.

From what witnesses are saying, these gunmen burst into this conference center.
They open fired and it was very quick, and they took off. They had the intention
of trying to get away. So, it is not like a lot of these cases where we see, and
the gunman is hold up inside, taking hostages, you know, potentially wearing a
suicide vest. That was not this at all.

Instead, the way we understand it is the shooting happened very quickly. And,
then those gunmen took off. Police responded almost immediately and local
hospitals began preparing to take the victims, which we now know were
substantial amount of victims, 14 dead, 17 injuries; 18 if you include the
police officer, who was injured at another location in the shootout.

O`DONNELL: So, Blake, the best we can make out of the way it played out is that
the murderers left before the police arrived?

MCCOY: That is exactly right. And, witnesses reported seeing a black SUV drive
away. So, that is why authorities were on the lookout for that black SUV. A tip
led them to that other location, that home that they are currently searching
right now, about six miles from here.

They say when they were going to that home, they spotted that black SUV and that
is when the chase ensued, which ended about two miles from my location here. So,
the suspects were able to get away from here before the police arrived,

But, it is that black SUV that witnesses spotted driving away that eventually
led to the suspects. It was four hours later and they did not switch vehicles.
They were still in the same vehicle, we believe, that they escaped the scene
from.

O`DONNELL: And, Eugene O`Donnell, what is so fascinating about all of that is by
the time, they are getting back in that black SUV. It is being reported
throughout Southern California that this has happened. This was saturation news
coverage there.

So, they could conceivably have been at home even seeing some of this news
coverage on television, possibly before they get back in the suspect vehicle the
witnesses have already identified.

O`DONNELL: No doubt. I think we recognized the buzz they must get out of this.
The bizarre and inexplicable buzz they must get. No doubt they saw police cars
coming, heard sirens. They knew this was the number one event in the country
that they had precipitated. And, they waited in the vicinity, whether to see the
damage they caused or for whatever the reason, but it did not seem like they
were intent on really making a clean getaway.

O`DONNELL: The bomb disposal robot that we have been watching seems to have done
its job at that location with whatever that was. We now have that video that
Blake was talking about from inside the building earlier today when people were
evacuating. Let us listen. .

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE SPEAKER: Go. Go. Go. Keep walking and keep your hands right
where I could see them. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Relax, everyone. Try to
relax. I will take a bullet before you do, that is for damn sure. Just stay
cool. OK?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: Jim Cavanaugh, it seems like the bomb disposal unit has done its job
at that location. And, watching that video, that cell phone video that someone
took of people being evacuated from that building, sadly it seems like it is the
kind of video we will probably be seeing more of in these events in the future.

CAVANAUGH: Yes, I agree with you, Lawrence. It just happens too much, but you
are exactly right. The robot, the bomb squad robot would use a disruptor charge
to hit the package, the backpack or box or whatever they are looking at. It
sliced it to open it up. And, then they can get a look at the contents and make
sure it is an explosive device.

And, of course, the uniform patrol here is in here quick. And, they are trying
to get people out through a corridor. They know that they will be safe egress.
And, we saw then all day taking them to across golf course across the street.
So, you know, it is just going to be not a simple motive when we see it.

I think that people -- If it is only two or maybe it is three arriving there
with mask on, pitching something that was a bomb, mowing down everybody in the
conference center. This is going to be an interesting motive to see, just
exactly what is driving this kind of violence and carnage at this particular
group of people today.

O`DONNELL: And, Jim, it is such a strange package of motivations here. When you
see that they go in there at 11:20 A.M., they are masked, they are prepared to
do this murdering and they are prepared to flee. And, they seemed to follow that
plan. They go in there. They do the shooting. They killed 14 people. They wound
17 others. They get themselves out of there into the black SUV.

And, then very, very strangely, hours later, they come back. They come back to
this area in that same black SUV. And, so, what looked like a team of murderers
that was trying to escape becomes a team that returns close to the scene of the
crime, where they know most police in Southern California are congregated.

CAVANAUGH: Well, that is right. I mean they went back to the house in Redlands.
It is not clear from the chief`s description whether they were inside the house,
and the surveillance saw them leave or they came up and turned around.

You know, they could have went back and got some more ammunition. They could
have went back, as you described, and watch the news. You know, like Gene was
saying that this is really something. They captured America`s attention. They
are watching the chaos that they have unleashed on the country.

And, then they get back in the vehicle. And, from what the chief said, it was a
surveillance in the beginning. So, they might have went right back toward the
scene of the mass murder to see the chaos they have unleashed. This is not
unusual. We have seen it with bombers and arsons.

You saw it in Paris. They have a suit. They went back to the cafes and the
Bataclan theatre and to see what carnage he had wreaked. And, of course, he
might have had additional motive to film some of that for propaganda. But,
nevertheless, it is not unusual for these kind of killers to want the see the
chaos they have created.

O`DONNELL: Five of the adults who were wounded were taken about three miles away
to the Loma Linda Hospital. NBC`s Morgan Radford joins us live from that
hospital. Morgan, what do we know about how those patients are being treated
tonight?

MORGAN RADFORD, NBC NEWS, LOMA LINDA HOSPITAL: Lawrence, we do know that of
those five victims, who were wounded and brought here to Loma Linda, two of them
are in critical condition. Two of them are in fair condition, and one`s
condition is still being determined.

But, that said, Lawrence, just earlier today, at 2:30 P.M., right when we were
standing here. There was a bomb threat called into this hospital. Then just an
hour later, it was lifted after a unit of canines came in. And, they later
determined that, that threat was not, in fact, credible. Meanwhile, families
continue to trickle in, trying to find out anything they can about their loved
ones.

Earlier today, I spoke to one of the security guards, who was actually guarding
the entrance where the family members are coming in. And, she spoke to three or
four different family members, one of whom was just a young man who was waiting
to see how his uncle was doing. So, you are hearing personal tails emerge right
here out of this hospital. As families right now, Lawrence, are playing the
waiting game.

O`DONNELL: And, Morgan, how many people are being treated at that hospital at
this point?

RADFORD: There is 17 people, who are wounded today, but five of those 17 are
being treated here at Loma Linda.

O`DONNELL: And, others have been taken to other facilities?

RADFORD: To other trauma facilities right here in San Bernardino and a nearby
area. But, we are also seeing choppers that were leaving here as emergency
vehicles continue to come in.

But, here at Loma Linda, hospital authorities are saying they are not expecting
any more victims from today`s shooting to come here tonight. And, they say that
tomorrow they will be treating victims as business as usual.

O`DONNELL: Morgan Radford, thank you very much for joining us with that report.
I really appreciate it. We are joined now from Sacramento by Eileen Richey. She
is the Executive Director of the Association of Regional Center Agencies, which
represents the Inland Regional Center, where today`s mass shooting took place.
Tell us about the work that takes place at this center and who would be there
today in the course of the normal day.

EILEEN RICHEY, EXEC. DIR. ASSOC. OF REG. CENTER AGENCIES: Yes. Well, thank you
for having me here today. It is certainly a very tragic event. Inland Regional
Center is one of 21 regional centers that serve 290,000 individuals with
developmental disabilities here in the state of California.

At each regional center, there is a variety of services that regional centers
provide, intake, evaluation, case management. And, they provide those services
to individuals who have epilepsy, autism, cerebral palsy, intellectual
disabilities and similar disabilities.

So, there would be clients, people with developmental disabilities and family
members, who would be going to the regional center to either meet with their
case manager or go to the local regional center to partake in a seminar or a
clinic.

And, so at any one time, there are a fair amount of individuals with
developmental disabilities in their families at the regional center. Inland
Regional center is actually the largest regional center in the state of
California. They serve 30,600 individuals. And, they have a staff of around 650.

O`DONNELL: And, what was it like for all of you working in this system, the
regional center system to learn today, as the news reports developed early in
the afternoon about the location of this mass murder today. What was it like for
you all?

RICHEY: Well, you know, I guess I was very surprised at how quickly the
information was relay out. There was very quick communication. We were alerted
by a neighboring regional center, who had an employee had a son, who worked at
Inland.

And, so, we then proceeded to contact all of the other regional centers in the
state as well as coordinating -- they were coordinating with the department of
developmental services. So, there was very good communication.

All of the regional centers then reached out to their local police agencies to
confer with those agencies on whether or not they should locally take steps.
And, as a result of that, about eight regional centers ended up closing early
today on the advice of local police.

O`DONNELL: And, what is the plan for tomorrow? Do the regional centers at this
point feel safe to open tomorrow?

RICHEY: Well, I think we are going to wait and see. We have done, I think, a
good job of getting information out and keeping people informed. I do know that
Inland Regional Center will be closed until Monday. They have informed us that
all of their employees are, in fact, safe. And, that consumers that they served
were not harmed.

There were not any family members or individuals with developmental
disabilities, who were harmed during this attack. So, it is great sadness that
individuals lost their lives and were injured during this attack and our hearts
and prayers go out to those families.

O`DONNELL: And, Eugene O`Donnell, one of the great pains for the regional
centers will -- may turn out to be that one of the murderers involved was an
employee of this regional center.

And, as that is working its way through the system to get confirmed, there was
someone working at the regional center with the name of the one of suspects.
And, we will see if that is that person. But, one of the first questions people
are going to want to know is how long did he work there?

EUGENE O`DONNELL: Yes. You know, it does sound like humiliation. And, I guess
terrorism and humiliation, some of those things are interconnected. So, perhaps,
it is perception that he was being bullied in the workplace; or if these facts
turned out to be the case that perceived national origin or religion was the
basis of some sort of bullying that he encountered and he became enraged about
that. So, that is what it sounds like it might be. And, in that sense it might
cover both work place violence and sort of some terroristic motive.

O`DONNELL: We are back with Candice DeLong, a retired FBI Profiler. Candice,
what would you be looking for in the profiles of Syed Farook and anyone else
involved?

DELONG: Well, I think it is going to be very interesting. You asked the
question, how long had he worked there? I think that is very important. I agree.
I believe that was Mr. Cavanaugh who just said, this could be -- that because of
his ethnicity, he was being subjected to some problems at work, because he is
Middle Eastern.

And, the whole thing looks kind of -- it looks to me like if -- he is an
employee there. On the face of it, the first thing I thought this morning, I
thought this is an odd place for terrorism. And, it is an odd place for
workplace revenge, although that can happen anywhere. We have no information
that any of the clients, some would call them patients, people that receive
services, were injured.

Just the people, possibly employees of this one particular agency, and perhaps
an agency that one of the suspects -- the suspect that is the employee worked
with. But, this was not a kind of revenge thing where somebody made him mad, he
went home and got a gun. This has been in the planning for a long time.

O`DONNELL: Yes.

DELONG: I think we may probably find -- well, it looks more like revenge to me,
but there may have some political overtones.

O`DONNELL: Yes, and --

DELONG: But it does not mean it states sponsored terrorism.

O`DONNELL: And, that part of California, San Bernardino, there is a settlement
of people whose heritage is from the Middle East. And, in fact, there was a
front page article on Sunday "Los Angeles Times" this weekend about a Syrian
refugee family that had been resettled actually quite close to there, because
they had friends and people who they knew in that area.

And, so, I have to say that the notion that someone named, Syed Farook, working
at the Inland Regional Center would not surprise me. And, Eugene, I do not think
people working there would be struck by that. I think that would not -- that
would strike me as very unlikely to be an element of friction there.

Whatever friction he would have had as a worker there, I think would have been
of some personal nature that was not a matter of discrimination in that
community, I do not think.

EUGENE O`DONNELL: Yes. I mean I think that there is a lot of work place
bullying.

O`DONNELL: Yes.

EUGENE O`DONNELL: And, there is a lot of workplace violence. And, we do not
always see it, but the police certainly see it and it comes to their attention.
And, you know, I would not certainly say it look like it is heading in the
direction, perhaps that this guy has some connection, some real -- his
religious.

He is connected to events in the Middle East, but also this is more of a
personal issue. But, we have the intersection of the personal and his political
or religious beliefs. They may come together in this event.

O`DONNELL: Stay with us, we will be right back with more of our live coverage.

O`DONNELL: We are joined now by Andy Blankstein in our studio in Los Angeles. He
is an NBC Investigative Reporter. Andrew, there have been reports now about Syed
Farook. More reports developing, some quotes from his father about him, saying
that, "He was married and has a kid and he does not understand this." Are we
developing any more information about Syed Farook or any of the other suspects?

BLANKSTEIN: Right now, sources are saying it is still trying to background the
suspect. They are getting some of that same reports, obviously. There is
interviews going on. Search warrants being served in connection with this case.

I think what we will see in fairly rapid succession is trying to, again,
reference concentric circles; getting started with people that were close to him
or others involved in this, and then working out from that. And, then, also, try
to build in a timeline that would lead up to this. So, trying and get some kind
of a motive here, was it work place related? Was it something else?

And, so, we will see some of these reports. But I think the important thing to
remember here and we have seen it time and again with mass shootings is that
people tend to take slivers of this and then try to extrapolate out from it as
though they can ascertain motive. And, I think one of the things that they need
to do is really keep moving forward to really get what is the clear picture.

O`DONNELL: Jacob Soboroff, at your location there, we have on video right now
the bomb squad is now going straight into that backpack as we can see, it looks
like there is no danger there.

SOBOROFF: That is right, Lawrence. So, you know, as you are saying earlier this
evening. These searches are happening out of abundance of caution all over the
San Bernadino County area, also in Redlands.

It looks like a cocky or a camou backpack, that these, I would presume bomb
squad officers are going through after this -- the robot was moving this
backpack around. You know see the officers kicking it through. Obviously, lookie
loos now are pulling up. You can see this truck this car right in front. But, it
looks for now, Lawrence, that this potential threat is not one.

O`DONNELL: Yes, I just wanted to follow up on this with our audience that saw
this one earlier tonight, when the bomb disposal robot was out there approaching
that backpack and picking it up. And, that is the backpack that they retrieved
at that point.

And, so, by the time you have officers actually handling the backpack
themselves, they have already established that there is no danger to them when
they are getting in that close to it.

SOBOROFF: And, I should say, Lawrence, you know, as things become clear around
here and sort of the fog is always in its craziness list. We are just a short
ways away from where the shootout with the suspects earlier today occurred.

And, so, obviously everybody in this area is on edge. Everything that is going
on in this neighborhood is being looked up very closely by law enforcement
officials in the area. So, again, just up that street, we are now starting to
get some clarity. The shootout with the suspects ended just right up there and
around the corner there in San Bernadino.

O`DONNELL: We are joined now by Kevin Knierim. He is a former FBI Agent and a
co-founder and Managing Director of Cyopsis. Kevin, what do you make of these
developments tonight on the suspects?

KEVIN KNIERIM, FMR. FBI SPECIAL AGENT: Well, I think it will be really
interesting as the dust clears overnight and as they start to develop all the
leads that are going to just pour in that, you know, obviously, the questions
are, is it something other than domestic violence or, you know, anger at the
workplace.

O`DONNELL: And, the information we are developing now indicates that there were
at least three shooters. And, as we talked to Pete Williams at the beginning of
this hour, the way he tracked the number of references that investigators made
today about who was apprehended and who seemed to have gotten away, there is the
possibility that there was a fourth person involved in this.

But, that would also raise the question, the investigative question beyond the
shooters, who went into the regional center and murdered 14 people. Was anyone
else involved who did not actually participate in the event?

KNIERIM: Right. And, as we have seen in the events in Paris, you know, whether
this was terrorism or not, they do not do this in a vacuum, and they need help.
They are purchasing guns somewhere. You do not just buy a bullet proof vest off
the street either. So, all of that will need to be sorted out to find any
accomplices, obviously.

O`DONNELL: Eugene O`Donnell, what would you suggest to people they should expect
as a pace in this investigation? You know, we are going to be having these press
conferences and press briefings frequently throughout tonight. And, then
tomorrow, there will be some. But, you know, people want answers, they want them
fast. How much patience do people going to need?

EUGENE O`DONNELL: Well, I mean, law enforcement is trying to give as much
information as they can, but they often regret doing it, because storyline does
change. So, they are trying to brief people, but sometimes they become
victimized by putting out too much information. You know, there is conspiracy
theory of terrorist is already at work. I am sure -- In some ways, the less said
the better as far as a matter of investigation, but there is also a need to
restore public confidence --

O`DONNELL: Yes. I mean, that is a big part of it. Here you have San Bernardino,
a community that, you know, certainly, has no experience with something like
this. It is true of, you know, virtually all of our communities in the United
States. And, people have to go to work tomorrow. And, they know who the police
chief is in San Bernardino.

EUGENE O`DONNELL: Right.

O`DONNELL: And, so, within the department, there is understood to be a value for
that chief to be out there on the 11:00 news tonight and on the news tomorrow,
explaining to people everything he can, she can about what the situation is
there.

EUGENE O`DONNELL: Absolutely. And, the sad part is kind of pointy is that the
police are getting good for this.

O`DONNELL: Yes.

EUGENE O`DONNELL: And, we wish they were not, but they were in training for
this, I think today, actually when this was happening. So, S.W.A.T. teams all
over the country trained every day, virtually, for these kinds of events.

And, the great tragedy is to become skilled at it and getting better at
responding. It would be good to get the guns out of the country. Law enforcement
has to be the patchwork for the regulation. They have access to assault rifles,
which is extraordinary.

O`DONNELL: Our coverage continues now.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120201cb.474

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SHOW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript

                       Copyright 2015 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              Copyright 2015 MSNBC


                               16 of 24 DOCUMENTS


                                     MSNBC

                           December 3, 2015 Thursday

                           SHOW: HARDBALL 5:00 PM EST

Lone Wolves

BYLINE: Chris Matthews, Mark Potter, Pete Williams, Howard Fineman, Blake McCoy

GUESTS: Malcolm Nance, Michael Schmidt, Sabrina Siddiqui, Loretta Sanchez, Tim
Reid, Abby Phillip

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 7815  words



HIGHLIGHT: The FBI struggles to make sense of the actions of the young couple
who shot and killed 14 people in San Bernardino and later died in a hail of
police bullets.


CHRIS MATTHEWS, HOST: Lone wolves.

And this is HARDBALL.

Good evening. I`m Chris Matthews in Washington.

Well, the horror of San Bernardino could well, be a case of lone wolf
radicalized Islamist terrorism. And it could have been even worse. The terrorist
pair had planted bombs to create an even greater scene of carnage.

The crime stirred (ph) a vicious attack on President Obama by front- running
presidential candidate Donald Trump. He said today that the president was hiding
something about himself, something dark in his past and in his identity that
makes him defensive about such suspected terrorism, that keeps him from
condemning it for what it is.

While authorities have yet to nail down the motive of the San Bernardino
massacre, NBC News is reporting that Syed Rizwan Farook and his wife, Tashfeen
Malik, were likely radicalized and were in touch with people in the Los Angeles
area who expressed jihadist-oriented views. It also appears Farook was
communicating with people overseas who have been described as persons of
interest to American authorities.

Well, the hunt for accomplices is on tonight, as authorities also try to
determine who may have helped supply them with the stockpiles of ammunition,
bombs and weapons that authorities have recovered. According to the police, the
attackers used four guns in yesterday`s attack, firing up to 75 rounds while
killing 14 and wounding 21 others.

They rigged three remote-controlled pipe bombs which failed to detonate. Four
high-capacity rifle magazines were found at the scene after a deadly
confrontation with police, 1,600 rounds of ammunition were found on their bodies
and in their rented SUV getaway car.

Those stockpiles, however, paled in comparison to what investigators then found
at the suspects` house. Here`s San Bernardino police chief Jarrod Burguan.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CHIEF JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE: There were 12 pipe bomb- type
devices found in that house. There were also hundreds of tools, many of which
could be used to construct IEDs or pipe bombs. And in addition to that, they had
other material to have produced some additional bombs, as well. There were
another 2,000 9-millimeter rounds found at that house, over 2,500 .223 rounds
that were found at that house. And there were an additional several hundred .22
long rifle rounds that were found there.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: Well, to recap, 12 pipe bombs, bomb-making tools and material,
thousands of rounds of ammunition. These guys were ready for war.

We begin with NBC`s Mark Potter outside the suspects` house. Mark, give us the
picture there from the scene.

MARK POTTER, NBC CORRESPONDENT: Well, this is the scene here, just on the other
side of this crime tape. About 100 yards down to the right of those white cars
is an apartment that police say was rented by the two shooters. It`s not clear
if they actually lived there or if they just used it as some sort of workshop.

Officials say that this apartment is very -- is critical to their investigation
especially as they`re now trying to determine the motive. You know, why did this
shooting occur?

Perhaps most critical to that investigation are some things that were found
there -- computers, a flash drive, cell phones. They will now be taken by the
FBI to Washington, D.C., to their the lab to be analyzed very carefully not only
to answer the question about motive, if that can be done, but also perhaps
whether anyone else was associated with them either directly or in terms of
inspiring violent acts.

Agents are also -- have been today going through a car outside. We`ve seen
agents going in and out of this apartment all day today. They were taking --
they were analyzing a car. And as the police chief said, the 5,000 -- nearly
5,000 rounds of ammo, the 12 pipe bombs and the tools causing some people today
to say that this was, in effect, a bomb-making factory.

Eventually, the agents hope to put all this together, the computer data, DNA,
fingerprints, hair and fiber, all that kind of stuff that would come from a
scene like this, to paint a picture of exactly who this couple was, who they
were associated with and what exactly they were up to -- Chris.

MATTHEWS: Mark, let`s put together what we do know from the crime scene itself,
the magazines that were left there with all the firepower and then -- but also,
the three pipe bombs which were taped together, ready to be detonated by a
remote device.

The question is, was this going to be something worse. Were they planning to
wait for the first responders, the police to arrive, the hospital people to
arrive, the emergency workers to arrive, and then blow the whole place up? It
seems like that was the plan.

POTTER: There was another plan that was also suggested -- again, we don`t know.
Another suggestion is that they could have done a second attack at another
place, that perhaps the attack at the facility was not the one they planned on
originally, that it was inspired, perhaps, because of an argument at the party.
That`s another theory that you hear talked about.

But nobody can answer that question right now. That`s all speculation. That`s
another version of the discussion that you`re hearing out here today of exactly
-- you know, they don`t know what happened. They don`t know why this happened.
They still can`t call it terrorism. They`re getting closer to perhaps being able
to do that at some point, but they`re still working on that motive.

That`s job one, and they haven`t answered that question yet, Chris.

MATTHEWS: Well, let`s keep with it tonight. Thank you so much, Mark Potter.

NBC News justice correspondent Pete Williams joins us now from Washington. Pete,
you know we`re (ph) heading here to try to figure out what happened.

PETE WILLIAMS, NBC CORRESPONDENT: Absolutely. And that is the big question. To
your question about what that remote-controlled device was doing in the
conference center where the shooting was, that`s precisely one of the theories,
that maybe they -- the remote control was they would do the shooting. They would
leave, and they would either wait for the first responders or get some distance
away and then press the button.

It obviously didn`t work. Was it they were too far away? Was the thing badly
designed? They`re trying to figure that out now. The device was intact. the
remote controller they found was intact.

One of the interesting things about it, Chris, is that it was based -- the
remote control device was based on the remote controller for a model car. That
is precisely the formula that was used to build the Boston Marathon bombs. And
the formula for the Boston Marathon bombs came from "Inspire" magazine. So the
device here that didn`t go off seems to have been built along those same lines,
using the "Inspire" magazine instructions.

Now, if that`s the case, that would suggest they were looking at that radical
material from the al Qaeda source. On the other hand, the FBI is all trying to
see -- also trying to see whether that same plan could be found elsewhere in
non-jihadist sources -- just one of the man things that could lead either
direction in terms of whether this was, in fact, jihadist-inspired terrorism or
something else.

MATTHEWS: Well, let`s talk about the possible jihadism itself. This -- the souls
of these two people, the two young people in their 20s. One`s from Pakistan. One
has parentage going back to that country. They get together.

Do we know how they got together? Was it before or after they were radicalized?
What`s the sequence? Do we know that yet?

WILLIAMS: Not entirely clear. It appears that they met two years ago when Farook
was in Saudi Arabia on the hajj, or the Muslim pilgrimage. He had told people
that he was going to Saudi Arabia to pick up the wife that he had met on line.

That seems to be, in fact, exactly what happened. She was from Pakistan, was in
Saudi Arabia. They met at the hajj. At least, that`s the story that he gave to
friends and the people that he worked with.

And then she came in on this fiancee visa. They were married here. And she was
apparently a lawful permanent resident. We don`t know whether she was seeking
U.S. citizenship. But of course, he was a citizen because he was born here.

MATTHEWS: Well, two parts -- well, so much of it doesn`t fit a usual pattern...

WILLIAMS: Absolutely.

MATTHEWS: ... and you`re the expert looking for patterns here. One is leaving
behind a 6-month-old child. I mean, parents love their kids, and to leave the
child behind with a grandparent saying they were going to a doctor`s
appointment, and then minutes later, killing, you know, 14 people, trying to
kill another whatever, adding up to 35 -- I mean, it is an extraordinary set of
steps to be putting all together -- leaving a child forever, not leaving the
crime scene by much distance, almost walking distance, when they could have been
well away in the two hours before they were caught.

Those three steps don`t really fit together, dumping the kid, committing the
crime and then sort of staying in the area.

WILLIAMS: Well, in fact, I think -- first of all, I totally agree. I mean, it`s
very hard to find a rational explanation for this or anything that`s remotely
acceptable. But what they did is, they made their getaway -- and that, by the
way, in itself is unusual. For them to get in and out to quickly shows their
familiarity with this -- with this building and where this event was happening.

But they did get all the way back to Redlands, California, which is 10 miles
away, where that house was that you saw Mark Potter.

MATTHEWS: OK.

WILLIAMS: The authorities heard about Syed Rizwan Farook from the witnesses
there at the center. They said, We think he was involved. They figured out where
the house was. They went to the house. They saw the two of them get in the SUV
as they were -- as the FBI was staking out the house, the police was, and drive
away. The police chased the SUV, and the SUV ended up going back down toward
where the shooting scene was. But initially, they had gotten way far away.

MATTHEWS: So they actually went a distance, then came back to the crime scene.

WILLIAMS: Yes.

MATTHEWS: Do you know if there`s any reason why they did that, or was it just
the direction they were escaping?

WILLIAMS: I think it was the direction they were escaping. They had all this
additional firepower in the car. They had the assault weapons with many, many,
many rounds. At one point, as the SUV is speeding away and the police are
chasing them, they tossed out a pipe that police thought might have been an
explosive, but it was just a copper pipe with a cloth stuck in the end to look
like a fuse perhaps to try to slow the police down.

But you know, that`s -- that`s a subsidiary question here. One is, what were
they up to? What was their motive? And the second thing is, were they intending
other attacks? You`d certainly think so because of all this material that they`d
been stockpiling.

MATTHEWS: And the woman in this case, Ms. Malik, she was firing, apparently,
from the car. She was quite active in this assault even to the end, to her
death.

WILLIAM: Right. Authorities say as the car was speeding away, Syed Farook was
driving. She was shooting out the back. And then at some point, the car stops.
They stop the car, police believe. They don`t believe that the police disabled
the car.

Syed decided to stop. And then both of them turned and started to shoot at the
police. There was this amazing exchange of gunfire, and the two were killed.

MATTHEWS: Horrible. Horrible -- so much. Thank you so much, as always, Pete
Williams.

WILLIAMS: You bet.

MATTHEWS: For more on tonight`s top story, I`m joined by Malcolm Nance, who was
a counterterrorism officer himself. He`s now the executive director of the
Terror Asymmetrics Project. And Michael Schmidt`s a reporter with "The New York
Times."

Malcolm, give us a sense right now about this attack. And you`ve been listening
to this. Fill us in on what`s missing, the cement that possibly could put this
whole story together.

MALCOLM NANCE, TERROR ASYMMETRICS PROJECT: Well, this is an absolutely
fascinating attack. And I can tell you as a professional, they`re going to be
writing theses about this attack.

There are so many factors in here which don`t add up. You have what apparently
is a radicalized person who creates very large quantities of explosives, large
weapons systems, actually practices on these systems, and then goes to his
workplace to do -- former workplace to do workplace -- what appears to be
workplace violence.

Then goes out, goes back to his home, and appears to be going for a restrike to
do something else, instead of getting on the 10, driving into Los Angeles and
having a shootout at Malibu Beach or something like that. Absolutely
fascinating.

Where this came from is, obviously, there is some form of radicalization which
has occurred in there (ph). They`ve watched the videos. They`ve spoken to
people.

MATTHEWS: Right.

NANCE: And they wanted to carry out a jihad-type operation. And then we have
this bizarre factor of where they decided to do it at.

MATTHEWS: Well, Malcolm, you`re so good (INAUDIBLE) take the next step. They
sort of put their costumes on. They put on these black uniforms, these, you
know, paramilitary sort of things. Then they get a Ford Expedition, a big --
could be it looks -- it looks like a paramilitary vehicle.

And they want to go out in style? Is that it? I mean, literally go out in style.
Were they planning a kind of a standoff at the end? They didn`t plan to get
away, did they? Can we tell?

NANCE: I`ve been talking to law enforcement across the whole United States
who`ve been calling me today, asking about that very question. Why did they not
conduct, you know, a full-scale massacre? I mean, they went into a room with
people who were literally in wheelchairs, with nurses, and carried out the
softest target attack that they could possibly find. They are going to be
ridiculed within the jihadi community for this. I mean, they didn`t even try to
carry out a serious attack.

MATTHEWS: Yes.

NANCE: But on the other hand, you have to ask yourself, you know, why would they
carry out this attack within their own community and not go on to something
further? Because they clearly practiced this. They built bombs which were very
dangerous. They had a bomb lab in their house. And then they had these weapon
systems, and this woman knew how to operate that weapon system, which took a
great quantity of training. So they got...

MATTHEWS: Well, maybe the whole thing was...

NANCE: ... what they wanted in the end.

MATTHEWS: ... a bait? How about the whole thing? I got to go on and do Michael
here, but -- Michael Schmidt -- but could the whole thing have been a bait, that
they were going to shoot a bunch of people in the room, knowing that first
responders would arrive. They`d have all kinds of police there and people from
hospitals, emergency people, and kill them all. That would be quite a shot if
they wanted to make a noise, right, Malcolm?

NANCE: Oh, I`m sorry. I thought you were talking to Michael. Well, you`re
absolutely right. It could have been. And my first thought when I said they
abandoned the site, the attack site -- my first thought was they horrified
themselves.

We don`t usually get people who are going to carry out these dual, you know,
suicide, you know, type barricades (ph) who jump into their car and then drive
back to their residence, knowing that law enforcement is probably going to be on
them within a very short amount of time, unless they were go to restock, rearm
and come out and restrike onto another target.

But they went from San Bernardino to Redlands. I mean, this just didn`t make
sense and it actually spells out confusion in the mind of these terrorists.

MATTHEWS: And then headed back past the crime scene itself. Michael, your turn
now. Fill us in, if there`s something we`ve missed.

MICHAEL SCHMIDT, "NEW YORK TIMES": Well...

MATTHEWS: I`ve tried to cover so much here.

SCHMIDT: ... they tried to destroy the phones. They tried to destroy their
electronics. And that`s really slowed the investigators down. They went into the
house...

MATTHEWS: In that time, apparently.

SCHMIDT: Well, they clearly -- you don`t just destroy the phone. You know, there
was clearly preparations that had gone into place. When they went into the
house, they find these electronics. That has slowed their ability to see who
else they were talking to. They`re sending some of the electronics back to the
East Coast, where the FBI technicians will look at them to try and get as much
as they can out of them.

And then in the house, there was, like, a -- as they were saying, a makeshift
bomb. There was, like, a whole work area. And there was extra powder that they
hadn`t used in other explosives.

So the question here is, were these regular shooters that we see in this country
all the time? Were these jihadists? Or is there a combination of both? We`re
they planning something...

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: ... fill that point in because...

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: There`s always the political argument about, Should we call them
Islamic terrorists, Islamist terrorists? Where -- is there evidence of religious
radicalization?

SCHMIDT: Look, all we know is that the FBI has identified a handful of people
that he was in contact with that they`ve investigated...

(CROSSTALK)

SCHMIDT: None of them were ever charged. These are people -- look, the FBI has
investigated a lot of people since September 11. So the idea that he knew
someone that was investigated isn`t that farfetched. But he was talking to
people abroad. And why was he talking?

And they start to see this pattern and these see these handful of people and
they say, Well, this is kind of odd, and then they look at the preparations that
he had and they way, Well, this is not your average mass shooter. But it`s the
combination of both that`s really made it difficult for them to...

MATTHEWS: So it`s a "Walk like a duck" kind of thing.

SCHMIDT: Yes, well, it`s, like -- it`s a combination of these things. And
they`re trying to parse that out and it`s been difficult because they`ve never
really seen anything like this.

MATTHEWS: We`re learning so much, but not enough yet. Thank you so much, Malcolm
Nance. Thank you for your great analysis. And Michael Schmidt, as always, sir.

Much more ahead on the massacre in California. We`ll go back to the ground,
where the community is holding a vigil right now in honor of the 14 who lost
their lives.

Plus, we`re going to get to the political fallout. The Republican presidential
candidates are going to all their sort of usual battle stations, with the
front-runner making dark, ugly insinuations about President Obama once again.
He`s back to his bitherism, Donald Trump is.

Our coverage continues after this.

MATTHEWS: We`ve got new reaction now from President Obama tonight, who addressed
the massacre while, ironically, speaking at the national Christian tree lighting
ceremony.

Here he is.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: ... is, of course, the most
wonderful time of the year. But we would be remiss not to take a moment to
remember our fellow Americans whose hearts are heavy tonight, who grieve for
loved ones, especially in San Bernardino, California.

Their loss is our loss, too, for we`re all one American family. We look out for
each other in good times and in bad. And they should know that all of us care
about them this holiday season. They`re in our thoughts, they`re in our prayers,
and we send them our love.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: Well, as you see right now, the White House has lowered its staff --
the flag to half-staff in honor of the victims of San Bernardino.

Our coverage continues after this.

MATTHEWS: We are back with our coverage of the massacre in San Bernardino.

Well, the coroner`s office has just released the names of the 14 victims of
yesterday`s shootings. And, tonight, the city will hold a candlelight vigil, the
city of San Bernardino, in honor of those who lost their life.

NBC`s Blake McCoy is standing by live.

Blake, give us a sense, which we can`t see on television, the mood, the feeling
out there.

BLAKE MCCOY, NBC CORRESPONDENT: You know, I was at the scene of the shooting
earlier.

We saw people coming to the scene with flowers, hugging each other, clearly a
very emotional time for this city, for this community, as President Obama said,
a community very much with heavy hearts.

As you just alluded to, there will be a candlelight vigil here at the stadium
tonight. It`s being organized by the city. And when you think about how many
victims there are, how many lives were touched by this, they are expecting a
large crowd, 4,000 people expected here tonight.

You did say that the coroner just came out with the official I.D.s. The 14
people killed range in age 26 to 60.

Let`s give you just a taste of who these people are.

MATTHEWS: Sure.

MCCOY: We begin Michael Wetzel, 37 years old. He was married, a father of six.
He coached soccer. And we`re told he could be seen around town on weekends with
all of those kids shopping. One of his kids is an infant.

We have Nicholas Thalasinos, 52 years old. He was a health inspector who worked
along side Farook, the shooter, Jewish. And his wife tells us he was a martyr
for that faith. She`s a second grade teacher. And she says she knew her husband
was dead when she heard of the attacks and was texting him and got no response.

And third here, we have Daniel Kaufman, 42 years old. We`re told he ran the
coffee shop at that regional center. His boyfriend says he was initially told
last night that Kaufman had just been shot in the arm and was in surgery. It
wasn`t until today he learned that that was misinformation and his boyfriend was
in fact dead -- Chris.

MATTHEWS: What was it like overnight to go from what we thought was kind of a
Bronco chase situation, sort of a workplace anger issue, to finding out it was
international in nature, that this had to do with some - - certainly looked like
jihadism? How did the community react to that shift in cosmos, if you will?

MCCOY: There is a lot of confusion over how this shift happened.

We have spoken with the director of the mosque here, who says that he didn`t
notice any radical behavior. He said, had he noticed that behavior, he would
have notified authorities. He said this was a deeply religious man, someone who
came to prayer as much as twice a day sometimes, sometimes on his lunch break,
but no signs that he had been radicalized.

The only sign that at least the director of that mosque says there was, was he
stopped coming to prayer at some point in the past few weeks -- Chris.

MATTHEWS: Thanks so much for that reporting up to date, Blake McCoy. Thank you.

Last night`s shooting follows two attacks in this country that have also raised
concerns about threat of domestic terrorism. In May, ISIS claimed responsibility
when two American-born gunmen opened fire at an anti-Muslim event in Garland,
Texas.

And in July, four U.S. Marines and a Navy sailor were shot and killed by a
naturalized American citizen who the FBI called a homegrown extremist in
Chattanooga. FBI Director James Comey warned last February that there are
investigations now into people into various stages of radicalizing in all 50 of
our states.

I`m joined right now by U.S. Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez of California, who
serves on both the House Homeland Security and the Armed Services Committees.

What can we do legislatively, Congresswoman, to deal with homegrown terrorism?

REP. LORETTA SANCHEZ (D), CALIFORNIA: Well, you know, what we are looking at is,
in this particular case, is somebody who was born here in the United States.

It is very difficult to see and to point to something that we can actually do
against that. What we do know is that we are trying to tighten the loopholes
that we do have with respect to those who are traveling abroad or those who come
after having traveled in Iraq or Syria.

Maybe we will put a few more of the countries on the list for a double-check.
But this was a United States citizen. It`s very difficult to pinpoint. You just
heard from your local reporter that there was no -- no real indication.

And, yes, even our Muslim -- our mosques, for example, in my district are
constantly aware to see if there are any changes going on in people and are
working with us. The best work that we have is the one that is done directly in
the community with the community.

MATTHEWS: Well, let me ask you about that problem, because this fellow, I say it
nicely, this person, he went over to Saudi Arabia for the hajj. That`s a
religious experience.

And there is certainly nothing wrong with that. We believe in freedom of
religion completely. It`s more than tolerance. We celebrate it. He went over to
Pakistan apparently at some point. He found a wife through some channel, some
sort of social media perhaps. He found a wife, which everyone seeks to find, if
you are a male looking for a wife. That makes sense he would find one.

There is nothing criminal in any of these acts separately. He was looking for
someone who was very religious. That is also OK by our -- certainly by American
standards.

Where is the red line? What could authorities be looking for, except a fellow
goes to a mosque and starts screaming bloody murder about American life or
something? Short of that, which is probably rare, how do we know?

SANCHEZ: Well, in fact, Chris, that is the same question that I think a lot of
my colleagues are asking tonight.

How do we do that? Because to be American is to be -- to have access, to have
freedom, to practice your religion, to be able to go on pilgrimage. I have
certainly gone, as a Catholic, to Rome. And many people go to Jerusalem. So,
just the act of doing something like that, of reinforming your religion, is that
a negative? Should we all, all of a sudden, be scrutinized for it?

I think it`s a very difficult thing to do. And I think that, when we sit down,
when we -- we really have to have a dialogue about, what is it to be American,
because if we begin to shut down the freedoms that you and I enjoy, then are we
losing our Americanism?

It is real deep-set, a real thoughtful process, I think, that we have to go to
take a look and reflect on.

MATTHEWS: Me too.

Well, that is depressing, but I think it is honest.

Thank you so much, U.S. Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez from California.

SANCHEZ: Thank you, Chris.

MATTHEWS: Up next, the political fallout which comes with each mass shooting, of
course, as the 2016 presidential field weighs in, for better or for worse, on
this tragedy in California, and in a lot of these cases, it is for the worst.

You will hear it in a minute. And this is HARDBALL, the place for politics.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: It is possible that this is
terrorist-related, but we don`t know. It is also possible that this was
workplace-related.

But what I can assure the American people is, we`re going to get to the bottom
of this and that we are going to be vigilant, as we always are, in getting the
facts before we issue any decisive judgments in terms of how this occurred.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: Welcome back to HARDBALL.

That was President Obama, of course, earlier today with a very cautious reaction
to the massacre in San Bernardino.

But while the president said neither terrorism nor workplace violence could be
ruled out, Republicans had their minds made up, of course.

Speaking to the Republican Jewish Coalition`s presidential forum here in
Washington earlier today, the GOP candidates hit hard on the terrorist theme.
Here is what Ted Cruz and Lindsey Graham had to say.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: At this point, the details of what
happened in San Bernardino are still unclear.

But our prayers are with the families of those who were murdered, of those who
were shot. And all of us are deeply concerned that this is yet another
manifestation of terrorism. Coming on the wake of the terror attack in Paris,
this horrific murder underscores that we are at a time of war.

SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-SC), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: So, it`s not a gun control
issue. This is not about gun control.

If you think the shooting in California is about gun control, then you don`t
understand what is going on in the world. It is about two people who have bought
into an ideology that is just absolutely insane in nature and has to be
combated.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: Well, and Donald Trump took direct aim, as I said, at President Obama
by appealing to the worst hatred of those in the audience and exploiting the
tragedy in San Bernardino by questioning the president`s loyalty.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We had another event which probably
was -- the one yesterday -- probably was related. It always happens, but
probably was.

When I heard about it, I figured maybe not, but it turns out probably was
related, radical Islamic terrorism. And I`ll tell you what. We have a president
that refuses to use the term. He refuses to say it. There is something going on
with him that we don`t know about.

(APPLAUSE)

TRUMP: As far as Hillary is concerned, she has got to go with what he wants.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: Well, Trump`s remarks seem like somewhat of a calculated appeal for
support.

According to a September CNN/Opinion Research poll, 43 percent of Republicans
say they believe -- catch this -- President Obama is a Muslim.

Trump`s chief rival in the pivotal caucus state of Iowa, Ted Cruz, frequently
attacks the president for refusing to call terrorists radical Islamists. Now
Trump has taken it a step further by implying that the president is somehow in
league with them, and that is what he was doing.

Howard Fineman is global editorial director of The Huffington Post. And Sabrina
Siddiqui is a political reporter with The Guardian.

Howard, the implication there is clear, the suggestion is clear, that he has
something to hide, something in his background, like the fact that he is really
not from this country, that he`s really maybe one of them, if you will, one of
the terror people.

HOWARD FINEMAN, NBC CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: Well...

MATTHEWS: He says it in such a dark way.

FINEMAN: This is the dark heart of fear that Donald Trump has been appealing to
from the moment that he came on the scene as a political figure during the
birther movement that he started basically in 2012.

MATTHEWS: Yes.

FINEMAN: And he is continuing to plumb it -- plumb it, continuing to use it as
his main emotional calling card, because the centerpiece of his campaign -- and
I covered his campaign now for quite a while -- is fear, fear of the other, fear
of the outsider.

And whatever mystery he can create, whatever implications he can sow, he is
going to do it, because then he presents himself as somehow the shining knight
who is going to take care of it all.

MATTHEWS: Yes.

Sabrina, I -- it`s a little bit of trying to understand people. I don`t think --
I don`t think Donald Trump believes any of this malarkey. I think he knows he
sells it.

And the people down there are not poor white guys that didn`t go to college.
They`re wealthy men, most of them, these people in the room today, who are
sophisticated people who read "The New York Times," keep up with events. They
know Obama is what he says he is, a graduate of Columbia, a graduate of Harvard
Law School.

He was head of the law review up there. They know all of those things as facts,
as factual as any other part of their life, and yet they applaud like mad when
he implies that guy is some sort of Manchurian Candidate. And they applaud it
and they giggle. You can tell they`re laughing.

SABRINA SIDDIQUI, "THE GUARDIAN": Right.

And I think that this is something that has really grown on the Republican side.
When it comes to you -- that poll that you showed, it used to be about 25
percent to 30 percent of Republicans who thought that the president was some
kind of closet Muslim, who questioned where he was born.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: This includes suburbanites, newspaper readers.

SIDDIQUI: Well, it is now growing, as you showed in that poll, to nearly half of
the Republican electorate. And that is exactly, as Howard said, the fear that is
being stoked within the base in order for people like both Donald Trump and Ben
Carson to get ahead.

MATTHEWS: Do you believe they believe it, or are they just taunting him with it?

SIDDIQUI: Well, I don`t think that the audience in today`s room believe it, but
I think a lot of the people who show up to his rallies do. I think they believe
a lot of what he says about immigrants, about Black Lives Matter. He`s also done
the same thing with a lot of other groups.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: Let`s put our pundit hats on right now. Forget judgments, although I
don`t mind judging sometimes.

FINEMAN: OK.

MATTHEWS: It seems to me that the cosmos has shift in a Norman Mailer way.

It has shifted now from this could have been a gun violence issue, pure and
simple, somebody mad at work killed his co-workers, a horrible story, but with
no international implications. Now we are back to what we are used to.

Isn`t this good for Trump, because it shifts away from Dr. -- I call him Dr. Ben
Carson, who is not really the guy you go to for international terrorism? And the
evangelicals, I just saw a poll, another poll. That is their biggest concern,
evangelicals, is terrorism.

FINEMAN: Yes. Well, I was going to mention that -- that particular thing, which
is Iowa. Let`s realize that we are now only a few weeks away.

MATTHEWS: You are and I are like Jack and Bob Kennedy. We don`t even have to say
it.

(CROSSTALK)

FINEMAN: Well, we`re a few weeks away -- we are only a few weeks away from the
February 1 Iowa Republican and Democratic caucuses.

MATTHEWS: Right.

FINEMAN: Evangelical Christians are the key voting constituency.

They`re the hardest-working people who show up the most and essentially control
the caucuses. To the extent that the Republican race wasn`t all about fear and
loathing of the other, that mysterious other, it all is now.

MATTHEWS: Yes. Yes.

FINEMAN: And every one of these candidates...

MATTHEWS: Right on the eve of Christmas.

FINEMAN: Right on the eve of Christmas.

And I must say, to watch Barack Obama -- we had the clip earlier of Barack Obama
standing in front of the sparkling Christmas lights, saying that we are all one
family, at a time when the Donald Trumps and Ted Cruzes of the world are trying
to undercut his authority as president of the United States to bring us all
together, just tells you exactly where politics is right now.

MATTHEWS: I agree with that completely. I think he -- the smart Republican money
is on people who think we`re divided, want to be divided, and see the president
as basically an alien.

SIDDIQUI: Right.

And I think that Howard hit all the important points. But I do want to bring up
the issue of gun control, because it is remarkable how quickly this shifted once
it was clear that this might be suspected terrorism, that we`re no longer
talking about firearms, as if it`s somewhat irrelevant.

MATTHEWS: Because we are also talking about lead pipe -- pipe bombs.

SIDDIQUI: Well, pipe bombs.

(CROSSTALK)

SIDDIQUI: Is it suddenly irrelevant that these people walked into a store and
were able to purchase assault rifles and ammunition?

MATTHEWS: I agree with you. It is a part of the story. But I am afraid that the
front of the story right now is going to be terrorism.

FINEMAN: Add one other thing. The people in the room who applauded today when
Donald Trump was trafficking in that kind of hate should be ashamed of
themselves.

MATTHEWS: That`s my last line of the show tonight.

(CROSSTALK)

FINEMAN: They should be ashamed of themselves.

MATTHEWS: That they are smarter than that, and they`re better Americans than
that.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: Anyway, thank you. You`re thinking so fast tonight. I`m just a sl-mo
here.

Anyway, Sabrina Siddiqui, it`s great to have you on.

SIDDIQUI: Thank you.

MATTHEWS: Up next, we get some new details from San Bernardino, of course, from
two reporters out there covering the story from the ground.

Our coverage continues after this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CHIEF JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDO POLICE: There were 12 pipe bomb- type devices
found in that house or in the garage to that house. There were hundreds of
tools, many of which could be used to construct IEDs, 2,000 rounds found at that
house, Over 2,500 .223 rounds that were found at that house. Nobody just gets
upset at a party goes on and puts together that kind of an elaborate scheme or
plan to come back and do that. So, there was some planning that went into this.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CHRIS MATTHEWS, MSNBC HOST: Welcome back to HARDBALL.

The investigation continues into the killers responsible for Wednesday`s deadly
rampage in San Bernardino that left 14 people killed and 21 wounded. Law
enforcement officials are combing the crime scene for clues in three separate
locations.

Joining me now from San Bernardino is "Reuters" reporter Tim Reid and "The
Washington Post`s" Abby Phillip.

Tim, you first, give us a sense of what we see besides the incredible firepower
and explosive material available to this couple that would only suggest some
grand scheme to kill a lot of people. What else do we have that ties them to
radical Islamism if you will?

TIM REID, REUTERS: Well, people are trying to see if there is a link between
them and radical terrorism. We have sources at "Reuters" today that the FBI is
looking into links between Farook and some other people that the FBI had under
investigation and some of those possibly were overseas people. But beyond that
nobody made a definitive link yet.

MATTHEWS: Let me go let me go to Abby.

Your sense of this case -- how do we put together the strange combination of a
mother with a 6-month-old baby, leaving the baby behind with her mother, saying,
I am going off to see the doctor and heading off with her husband with all this
incredible firepower and explosives, planning some major assault on humanity and
trying to escape back to the house and going from there back to the original
crime scene. All that putting it together, I -- everybody around my office has
said mothers don`t leave their kids forever for anything less than perhaps
religion. It would take zealotry of the highest level to leave a kid behind.

ABBY PHILLIP, THE WASHINGTON POST: Yes. I think a lot of the pieces of the
puzzle point to radicalization of some kind. You have to put it in the context
of the environment that we are in. The greatest fear for intelligence folks that
is these lone wolves will radicalize themselves essentially. They don`t
necessarily need to be tutored into it, and they will go off and commit attacks
on their own. We might be seeing that.

But there are also pieces of the puzzle that don`t quite fit. And that is what`s
kind of hanging up law enforcement right now. His ties to supposed radicals are
not particularly strong. They weren`t strong enough to put them on their radar.
And the sequence of events, going to the party for a few minutes, leaving
abruptly and then coming back really raises some questions about the intent
here.

MATTHEWS: Yes, anyway, the brother-in-law of one of the suspects came forward
last night and apologized for the loss of life. He had no real answer however as
to why the atrocity was committed. Here he is.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

FARHAN KHAN, SUSPECT SYED FAROOK`S BROTHER-IN-LAW: I cannot express how sad I am
for, you know, what happened today. I mean, I -- my condolences to the people
who lost their lives. Very sad that people lost their lives and the victims out
there. I wish speedy recovery to them. I`m in shock that something like this
could happen.

I have no idea why would he do that. Why would he do something like this? I have
absolutely no idea. I am in shock myself.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: How do you allow your brother-in-law, a pretty close relative, to have
this incredible army of explosive material and guns and ammunition? Hundreds of
thousands of rounds all at the same time you are expressing the views of radical
Islam and not know it`s happening? Not knowing someone close to you is involved
with such a life?

PHILLIP: Well, the family seems to be fractured and some of the pieces of the
puzzle are really coming together.

But, you know that relative, that brother-in-law and his wife live in a pretty
quiet neighborhood. I was outside of their home today. They have two American
flags posted in the front yard. The other brother in the family also lives in
another quiet, well-to-do neighborhood. He served in the military.

So, there are elements where it seems like the rest of the family wasn`t aware
to some extent of what was going on. And they were going about their lives as
Americans.

MATTHEWS: Tim, your thinking?

REID: Yes, I mean -- yes. Absolutely.

Not only the neighbors who live next door to the brother. They would see Syed
Farook visit the house two or three times a week. He`d go and eat there every
Sunday at about 4:00 with his brother and his father. He seemed like a perfectly
normal guy according to the neighbors.

We`ve also been speaking to fellow worshipers in a mosque here in San Bernardino
where Farook worshipped. He obviously was a devout Muslim and was becoming more
devout. He memorized the entire Koran in the last six months. He would appear at
the mosque two or three times a week on his lunch break to pray.

But, again, everyone at the mosque is shocked that he went and did this. No one
saw this coming. He was quiet, well-mannered, devout, wanted to be a good
Muslim, they all said. Why he would go and do this is a great mystery. Although
a lot of planning went into this attack, 12 pipe bombs were found at the house,
4,500 rounds of ammunition, two assault rifles, two handguns.

The other weird thing is just a few months ago, his wife, the other shooter,
bought baby gear at Target on the baby registry. So, all outward purposes, they
looked like a normal couple. So, it`s still a great mystery as to what went on
inside that house.

MATTHEWS: Tim Reid and Abby Phillip, thank you for that. You`ve given us the
conundrum, at least of the year perhaps.

Our coverage of the terror in San Bernardino will continue after this.

MATTHEWS: Well, we`re all looking forward to a press conference from the police
out there and the FBI in the next hour. It`s scheduled to begin around 8:30
Eastern Time. MSNBC will bring you that live when it happens.

HARDBALL back after this.

MATTHEWS: We`re back with our coverage of the massacre in San Bernardino.

NBC`s Chris Jansing is standing by live at the scene of the shooting.

Chris, you`re in cleanup position tonight for us to give us what we`ve missed. I
guess what are they trying to find out right now about this horror?

CHRIS JANSING, NBC NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Well, first of all, Chris, there are
hundreds of investigators who are on this case, police, experts. Of course one
of the crime scenes right behind me. The other where those two suspects were
killed.

But I think the real focus here, a lot of attention, particularly by the FBI, is
in that home in Redlands. It`s not clear whether or not the family actually
lived there, whether this couple lived there with their child, but their names
apparently were on the rental lease.

And investigators have been bringing out tons of stuff. We already know from
what they`ve told us, 2,500 rounds of ammunition from assault rifles. Another
2,000 for pistols.

But a couple of interesting things: one, the kind of stuff that`s coming out of
there indicating that it was a virtual bomb-making factory. That`s how it`s been
described as people who are expert in this have been watching things coming out.

The other thing, and this is critical in all investigations like this: computers
and cell phones. Who were they in touch with? How did they get this stuff? How
did they learn, for example, how to potentially make these bombs?

So, those are the things that are going to be sent back to the FBI labs in
Washington, D.C., that are going to be fast-tracked. Nobody has more expertise
in this than these very highly trained specialists in the FBI. And they`ll be
looking at that.

They already know that the guns that were used in this were legally obtained,
but what a lot of people are questioning is, with an assault weapons ban, how
did they -- how were they able to kill so many people using one of the weapons,
which is an AR-15, same thing James Holmes used in Aurora. Well, they`re not
only easy to get but if you look at the advertisements for them, Chris, they say
they are also, and I`m quoting here, easy to use. You don`t have to go to
Pakistan, Syria, Iraq and get training for this.

MATTHEWS: Well, that`s not comforting.

Thank you, Chris Jansing in San Bernardino.

When we return, let me finish with Donald Trump`s suggestion that President
Obama is behaving defensively regarding Islamic terrorism.

You`re watching HARDBALL, the place for politics.

MATTHEWS: Let me finish tonight with Donald Trump`s suggestion that President
Obama is behaving defensively regarding Islamist terrorism, that as Trump put it
today, there`s something wrong with him that we don`t know about -- there`s
something wrong with him that we don`t know about.

Here we go again back into that indictment Trump has been nursing for years that
the president somehow got to where he is, the White House as part of a deep and
dark conspiracy, one that brought him secretly to this country from overseas,
that got him credit for graduating from various schools up to and including
Harvard Law School, even though no one, Trump assures us, at any of those
schools can remember Obama.

Well, this is Trump`s trump card. It`s his ethnic taunt to the worst of the
Obama haters. His willingness to argue that the president`s not really one of
us, that he is on the contrary a mysterious interloper who snuck into our
country, assumed an identity that wasn`t his, and smuggled himself all the way
to the American presidency, never once being the person he claims to be.

Well, this is the original Trump sin back again. This is the trumped- up libel,
that our front-running candidate is willing to sell whenever he finds an
audience, as he did today, willing to swallow it, if only because they hate
Obama personally. Hate his progressive politics. Hate most of all his open,
tolerant world view.

I have from the beginning seen Trump as a mixed bag, but this birtherism which
he resumed today is the bad he carries with him, refuses to dump and is so
willing to sell. And for those who applauded him today, cheered at his
insinuation the president hides himself as a defender of Islamist terrorism, I
can only say this -- you should be ashamed. None of us should applaud this 21st
century McCarthyism, this cheap insinuation against a fellow American backed up
by nothing but hate.

That`s HARDBALL for now. Thanks for being with us.

"ALL IN WITH CHRIS HAYES" starts right now.

THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE
UPDATED.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120301cb.461

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript

                       Copyright 2015 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              Copyright 2015 MSNBC


                               17 of 24 DOCUMENTS


                                     MSNBC

                           December 3, 2015 Thursday

                   SHOW: ALL IN with CHRIS HAYES 8:00 PM EST

ALL IN WITH CHRIS HAYES for December 3, 2015

BYLINE: Chris Hayes, Pete Williams, Steve Clemons

GUESTS: Hussam Ayloush, Tim Hilliard, Mark Follman, Charlie Pierce

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 7931  words



HIGHLIGHT: MSNBC`s coverage of the mass shooting in San Bernardino, California.


CHRIS HAYES, MSNBC HOST: Good evening from San Bernardino, California. I`m Chris
Hayes.

And tonight, a city in mourning for the 14 people killed here yesterday. At the
center for the developmentally disabled, the deadliest mass shooting in this
country since the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School three years ago.

The county coroner has now identified each of the 14 victims:

Michael Wetzel, 37. Damian Meins, 58. Nicholas Thalasinos 52. L. Daniel Kaufman,
42. Sierra Clayborn, 27. Shannon Johnson, 45. Bennetta Bet- Badal, 46.

Aurora Godoy, 26. Isaac Amanios, 60. Harry Bowman, 46. Yvette Velasco, 27.
Robert Adams, 40. Tin Nguyen, 31. And Juan Espinoza, 50.

At this hour, we`re awaiting a press conference with updates from law
enforcement. We`ll of course bring it to you as it happens. We`re also learning
much more today about the husband and wife duo who carried out yesterday`s
deadly rampage, though we still don`t have an answer to the key question that
has been bedeviling everyone, why did they do it.

Syed Farook, 28, and Tashfeen Malik, 27, are now thought to have been the only
people who opened fire on the Inland Regional Center yesterday morning, killing
14 people and ultimately wounding 21. Both attackers were killed hours later in
a dramatic public shootout with police.

Combing through the scene of the shooting and a home connected with the
attackers, investigators discovered an extraordinary trove of weapons and
equipment, including a pipe bomb at the shooting scene that never detonated.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CHIEF JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE: We did locate the one pipe bomb
that was actually three pipe bombs combined into one that had a remote control,
car-type remote control device that appears to have not have worked. There were
12 pipe bomb-type devices found in that house or in the garage to that house.
There were also hundreds of tools, many of which could be used to construct IEDs
or pipe bombs. There were another 2,000 9- millimeter rounds found at that
house. Over 2,500 223 rounds that were found at that house.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: According to officials, Farook had been attending a holiday party at the
social services center with the San Bernardino County Health Department where he
was employed as an inspector. At some point he left, only to return with his
wife between 15 and 30 minutes later, heavily armed and in tactical gear, and
fired up to 75 rifle rounds inside the conference room.

Before carrying out the attack, Farook and Malik had left their six-month- old
daughter in the care of her grandmother.

Joining me now, NBC News chief justice correspondent Pete Williams.

And, Pete, what are investigators piecing together about what happened here
yesterday?

PETE WILLIAMS, NBC NEWS CHIEF JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: Well, they`re finding
another sign of preparation for this attack. And this is one that occurred just
the day before the attacks they believe.

As investigators are going through that house in Redlands and looking for
electronic devices for the electronic trail that they may have left behind,
they`re discovering that the couple tried to disguise that trail by damaging the
hard drives on computers and smashing cell phones. So, this is making it harder
for the FBI to recover data off the couple`s phones.

What is going to happen now is that those devices are being sent back here to
the FBI`s lab in Quantico, where officials can try to very often recover data
even from a smashed hard drive or a smashed cell phone. Very difficult to do,
but they`ve had some success in the past. It doesn`t always work but it`s
something they`re going to try.

Nonetheless, by other means, by checking other records, they`ve been able to
determine that Syed Farook was in touch over the past year or so with people in
the U.S. and overseas who had expressed an interest in radical jihad.

Does this mean that they radicalized him or that he was just seeking out
opinions with which he already agreed? To be determined. But that`s one
direction in which the investigation has been going, Chris.

HAYES: And, Pete, the FBI as of today has taken over this investigation. The
FBI`s been very careful about attributing motive here so far. It seems they
really want to make sure they`ve penetrated down to the bedrock before they come
out and say anything definitive.

WILLIAMS: From the president on down, the president, the attorney general, the
FBI officials here in Washington, the special agent in charge in L.A., and the
county and city authorities, they`re all saying much the same. We don`t know why
they did it. And until they know why they did it they can`t say why they didn`t
do it.

So this is a difficult thing for them to do. They don`t -- they can`t square the
circle here. What did his trips overseas, his contacts with people who may have
had like-minded views about radical jihad, have to do with attacking his fellow
employees? That is a very odd bridge to get over.

And so, that`s one thing that`s stopping them. But this may be a slight nuance
here. I`m not sure the FBI has actually taken over the investigation. They`re
certainly leading parts of it. But in many ways they`re still partnering up
there with the local authorities, who have a lot of work to do on this.

HAYES: All right. Pete Williams, thank you very much.

WILLIAMS: You bet.

HAYES: NBC`s Stephanie Gosk visited a mosque that Syed Farook attended for the
past several years in San Bernardino and she spoke with the assistant imam there
and two members from the mosque who knew Farook.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

STEPHANIE GOSK, NBC NEWS: What were your thoughts when you realized he was
behind this?

ROSHAN ABBASSI, ASSISTANT IMAM: Shock.

NIZAAM ALI, DATI-AL-ULDOM AL-ISLAMIYAH MOSQUE: Shock. Disbelief.

GOSK: What was he like?

ALI: He was reserved. He wasn`t a person that was, you know, like a social
person, like meaning that he wouldn`t -- he wasn`t someone that if you saw, he
would come up and grab you and hey, how are you? But we made friendship with
him, acquaintance from him from the mosque. He used to come by during work and
pray in this mosque.

GOSK: When was the last time he was here?

ABBASSI: It`s been a while. A few weeks. Maybe a month. I don`t know.

GOSK: A few weeks. It had been a while.

Anything about his demeanor that was odd or out of place or angry?

ABBASSI: Absolutely not.

ALI: No, absolutely not.

ABBASSI: He was living the American dream.

GOSK: What do you mean by that?

ABBASSI: He had a really good job, really good pay, $77,000 a year minimum. He
had a wife. He had children. He had --

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Just had a baby.

ABBASSI: A warm house. He had a baby.

GOSK: What do you think about the role that his wife played in this?

ALI: It`s just -- it`s unbelievable.

GOSK: Is there something particularly striking about the fact that a woman was
involved?

ALI: Unbelievable.

GASSER SHEHATA, DTIA-AL-ULDOM AL-ISLAMIYAH MOSQUE: And she`s a mother of a
6-month-old baby. So, how she had the heart to leave her baby behind.

ABBASSI: It just doesn`t make sense.

SHEHATA: It doesn`t make sense at all.

GOSK: Did he describe her at all, what she was like or --

ALI: No.

GOSK: I know you don`t talk much --

ALI: I only saw her twice in my life. And that was -- because we have goats and
stuff that we sell. So he came to get a goat for slaughtering. You know we have
Eid, right? For slaughtering. Like sacrificing like Abraham.

GOSK: Mm-hmm.

ALI: So during that that was the last time I saw him, actually. That was two,
three months ago. And he had come by to pick out a goat.

And he had come with his wife. And she was all covered with the veil. What we
call niqab. So I wasn`t able to see anything. I couldn`t describe how she
looked. I have no idea.

GOSK: Did your mosque radicalize Syed?

ABBASSI: Never.

GOSK: That will be the question a lot of people will ask.

SHEHATA: There`s nothing radical in Islam. There is never anything radical,
anything about hating others. And in this majid, we only pray, we learn our
religion, and we go home. There`s nothing radical at all happening here.

GOSK: Does anyone who comes to the mosque for recreation --

SHEHATA: No.

GOSK: -- go to shooting ranges? Does anybody own guns as far as you know?

ALI: I don`t think any of us own guns.

SHEHATA: I have never had a gun in my life. Never shot in my life.

GOSK: Is there a gun culture in the community?

SHEHATA: No. Not at all.

GOSK: Do you worry the effect that the shooting will have on your community and
how they perceive you?

ABBASSI: Definitely.

ALI: Absolutely.

Ad something to add to that, I don`t think that we`re saying that if it wasn`t a
Muslim it would be OK, right? We`re not saying that. That if it was a Muslim,
hey, it would be better. No, that`s not what we mean.

We mean that because it has to do with him being a Muslim it directly involves
us, it threatens our lives, it puts our lives at stake. It changes our
perceptions on life and how we need to, you know, carry on from here.

GOSK: Roshan, you had an immediate experience with that last night. Who showed
up at your door?

ABBASSI: So, we pray our last prayer at 7:00 p.m. So we prayed, and we chat a
little bit after. Me and my friend, we go to my house.

A few minutes later, knock, knock. Who was at the door? Said, oh, it`s probably
my neighbor. He comes sometimes, he gives me some stuff, some gifts, so on, so
forth.

I open the door, a gun pointed right at my face with a flashlight.

GOSK: What kind of gun?

ABBASSI: A handgun.

GOSK: Yes.

ABBASSI: Probably a smaller version. FBI, a Secret Service agent, and LAPD.

GOSK: The gun was raised when you opened the door?

ABBASSI: Yes. So I was shocked.

GOSK: Scared?

ABBASSI: Scared. Definitely. What did I do to have a -- what did I do to deserve
a gun being pointed at me right at my door?

GOSK: What kind of questions did they ask you?

ABBASSI: Where is he from? What does he do? Everything about his background. His
wife, so on, and so forth.

GOSK: Was that the moment you realized it was him?

ABBASSI: Yes.

GOSK: So you didn`t even know it was him when they showed up at your door with
guns?

ABBASSI: I did not know.

GOSK: What do you hope comes out of it? What`s the message that you want to give
to the American public? This is your opportunity to give it.

ALI: That we denounce this, that we are also fellow American citizens. We are
also citizens of San Bernardino.

This is my hometown. I was born here. I was raised here. So I, you know, take
this as my own -- something that happened in my front yard. Not my back yard,
but in my front yard.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: All right. I`m joined now by Hussam Ayloush. He`s executive director on
the Council of American Islamic Relations in Los Angeles.

Mr. Ayloush, you put together that press conference last night, which was a
deeply intense scene. Obviously, a lot of grief.

And can you tell me why you put that together, why you felt the need to have
that press conference?

HUSSAM AYLOUSH, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, CAIR-LA: For a couple of reasons. One is we
wanted to provide a platform for the family of Syed Farook because they felt
frustrated. They felt angry, grieved, devastated about the news that one of
their relatives could have committed such a horrendous crime.

They wanted to tell fellow Americans that we all stand together, we all grieve
and mourn together and pray for the victims and their loved ones. The other
reason is, unfortunately, we live at a time when there are those with
anti-Muslim views who try to exploit such tragedies every once in a while when
those tragedies involve some Muslim perpetrators to build hatred and fear of
Islam.

So, we wanted to make sure that, again, our fellow Americans know that we stand
united as Muslims, Christians, Jews, Buddhists, and others in the face of such
criminal behavior. We reject any such criminal behavior, any barbaric crimes
such as this one. This breaks our heart that anyone, anyone would even doubt our
humanity, doubt whether we cry and feel saddened like every other every
American.

I have family members. My wife works in the area. My kids go to school there.
You know, the first thing when I heard the news, like any other parent, any
other American, immediate anxiety and worry about their safety. And then, after
I made sure they`re safe I worry about the rest, like everybody else.

HAYES: Mr. Ayloush, there`s a sense in which it sounds like the people around
him, the interview we just listened to and the brother-in-law last night that
was at your press conference, really do seem just shocked, just beyond shocked
that it was Syed, that there just doesn`t seem to be a lot of indication to
anyone.

AYLOUSH: And for good reasons, because the family could not imagine that a
person living the American dream as your earlier guest said, someone had a good
job, happy family, just recently got married, a baby girl, you know, why would
anyone give up their life, their marriage, their kids, everything else in life
to do this? It`s hard -- it`s mind-boggling really.

We`re all waiting for the results of the investigation to know what the really
motives, what would have made someone snap like that and become the monster that
he became. It`s heartbreaking to hear the imam speak a while ago, and I know the
imam and the community there. It breaks my heart that they have to even feel the
need to condemn, as if it`s not already known that we all condemn such behavior.

HAYES: All right. Hussam Ayloush, thank you very much.

I`m joined now by Tim Hilliard. He`s a social worker who works at the Inland
Regional Center, which is just behind me here, the site of yesterday`s massacre.
He was at work yesterday and witnessed the aftermath of the shooting.

How are you doing?

TIM HILLIARD, SOCIAL WORKER, INLAND REGIONAL CENTER: Tired.

HAYES: Yes.

HILLIARD: I haven`t slept since yesterday.

HAYES: I understand that Daniel Kaufman, who was just announced by the coroner
as one of the deceased, is a friend of yours.

HILLIARD: Yes. We all know him at regional center. He worked in the coffee shop
downstairs. He actually ran it for all of us. And we just found out, confirmed
this afternoon.

HAYES: I want to give my condolences to you. Everyone I think is sending
condolences across the nation right now. What was it like there yesterday? When
did you realize something wrong was going on?

HILLIARD: At first, I didn`t know what was going on. I was in my office
listening to music and getting back in the groove of everything at work. I just
got back from Thanksgiving break, and heard a lot of stampeding, walking around.
I`m on the third floor in the second building, right over building 3.

And I received a text around 11:00 saying active shooter on site and I`m
thinking something basic, maybe somebody casually walk through with a gun. I
mean, it`s social services. So, maybe nothing big. At that time I step out of my
office, see hysteria, people running, screaming, saying they`re getting shot,
getting killed, we`re going to die. Just hysteria.

At that time, I realized there`s really something going on but not what. So I
was trying to ask questions of exactly what is going on within our facility.

HAYES: What kind of work, for folks who didn`t hear about the Inland Regional
Center till yesterday when this horrible tragedy visited it, what kind of work
do you guys do? What do you do?

HILLIARD: We provide social services needs for consumers that range in different
things from intellectual disability, autism, to make sure they have
independency, empowerment, to provide basically the function in everyday life
just like anybody else.

HAYES: It`s incredible work. And thank you for doing it. And I hope you can get
back to it as soon as possible. Tim Hilliard, I really appreciate it. Thank you
very much.

HILLIARD: Thank you.

HAYES: All right. More here from San Bernardino and how people are starting to
process yesterday`s shooting. And later, we`ll talk about these two dramatically
different headlines covering yesterday`s tragedy. Plus, I visited a nearby gun
shop earlier today and had a chance to talk with the owner.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Normally, the business increases after things of this nature.

HAYES: Really?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: People -- my phone`s been ringing off the hook this morning.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: Today in the Oval Office, President Obama offered thoughts and prayers
for the victims of yesterday`s mass shooting in San Bernardino and thanked law
enforcement for their response. He also again called on all Americans, including
lawmakers, not to accept that nothing can be done to stop these sorts of
attacks.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: As the investigation moves
forward, it`s going to be important for all of us, including our legislatures,
to see what we can do to make sure that when individuals decide that they want
to do somebody harm we`re making it a little harder for them to do it because
right now it`s just too easy.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: More from President Obama and the possible motive or motives of the
shooting suspects, just ahead.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

OBAMA: It is possible that this was terrorist-related, but we don`t know. It`s
also possible this was workplace-related.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: Authorities are still trying to establish a clear motive in yesterday`s
shooting rampage, but there appears to be the possibility two categories of
violence might emerged, the disgruntled alienated rampage here with which we`ve
become all too familiar, and the self-radicalized terrorist. Again, stressing
that either or both of those profiles are still only possible explanations of
what happened yesterday, something we may never fully understand.

One suspect, Syed Farook, was an environmental health specialist with the
Department of Environmental Health Services. He attended yesterday`s holiday
party event at the Inland Regional Center and left early after reportedly
possibly getting upset. Farook then returned, presumably with his wife, Tashfeen
Malik, and opened fire.

Many details of the attack indicate a certain degree of planning including the
weapons used in the attack and found at the couple`s home, where authorities
discovered 12 pipe bombs and more than 2,000 rounds of ammunition.

Before the attack, the suspects left their 6-month-old daughter with the child`s
grandmother, reportedly saying they had a doctor`s appointment.

Law enforcement officials tell NBC News that Farook had been in contact with
people known to have radical jihadist views -- the extent and implications of
this part of an ongoing investigation.

Joining me now, Mark Follman, national affairs editor of "Mother Jones", and NBC
contributing editor Steve Clemons, editor at large of "The Atlantic".

And, Mark, it`s a depressing reality you have been on the mass shootings beat
for "Mother Jones." It`s something you cover routinely. You`ve done really
comprehensive analysis of mass shootings. As someone who`s studied a lot of
these, what stands out to you here?

MARK FOLLMAN, NATIONAL AFFAIRS EDITOR, MOTHER JONES: Well, as you were just
describing, Chris, the confluence of possible motive here is really fascinating,
as much as this case is horrifying, that this may have been some kind of
workplace violence combined with some kind of ideological terrorism-related
motive. And I think it underscores how complicated this problem is for law
enforcement to investigate and try to prevent from happening.

A top federal official who focuses on this problem, who I spoke to recently, was
mentioning to me how after you have an event like Paris, all kinds of threats of
this nature that they`re watching out for tend to get spun up and they get
increasingly worried that regardless of what the motive is, you may have more
attacks like this. Part of that is the copycat effect that goes on with these
cases.

So I think this case may represent that in a new way, but we`ll still have to
see what comes out.

HAYES: Steve, there`s been a lot of concern. And again, I want to be clear about
what we know and don`t know. We don`t know the motives yet. We don`t know the
extent to which there`s a possible connection to any kind of jihadi ideology.

But there has been -- bracketing that for a moment there has been concern for a
while about just essentially the way in which various jihadist groups have used
propaganda to essentially inspire what we call lone wolf attacks. There`s been a
few in different places around the world that seem to have been essentially
people that fell into some kind of psychological pathology partly inspired by
the propaganda, and it just seems like a very difficult policy problem for
anyone to try to approach.

STEVER CLEMONS, MSNBC CONTRIBUTOR: I think you framed it exactly right. We saw
shortly after the revelations of the San Bernardino attack, various supporters
of ISIS begin tweeting out "America burning" with glee. And that kind of
activity may inspire others.

But I think it`s important to remember, I mean, I think that right now, many of
our Muslim-American citizens are worried about a growth of Islamophobia, which I
have to say, given some of what we`ve heard from people like Donald Trump, may
in fact tick forward.

And it`s a real tragedy because just as Mark Follman just described, we don`t
know all of the answers about this particular couple and the toxic mix of what
created this particular incident. And what`s going to happen in many places in
the United States is people are going to think that that toxic mix is easily
replicable and can metastasize in their home mall. And that`s just not the case.

HAYES: Mark, the detail -- there`s a few details here that I keep getting stuck
over. The fact that it was a husband and wife together, that it was two people
committing this, which I think it`s been since Columbine we`ve seen something
like that. That a woman was involved, which in the mass shootings I`ve seen
documentation of, women being shooters is very rare.

And the last detail, which I just cannot get my head around is the dropping off
of the 6-month-old before they go to do this. I guess my question is, is there
some level at which motivation here ultimately never is resolvable, is
fundamentally unknowable at some level?

FOLLMAN: Yes. I think that`s right. You know, some of those details you`re
describing really are truly mind-boggling, shocking. And on a subject we`re
pretty numb to at this point. You`re right that a woman shooter being involved
is pretty rare. There was one other case recently last year, the alleged
right-wing couple who shot some police in Las Vegas.

HAYES: That`s right.

FOLLMAN: But this appears to be a very different kind of case. And there are so
many kind of ways that this problem seems to morph now that yes, I think it is
ultimately very hard to know what the motivation was in any kind of clear sense
because I think frankly it`s a number of things in many of these cases. You have
this combination of ideology, of deep-seated grievance, of mental health issues
in a lot of these cases. It`s very hard to pin down in a lot of ways. And I
think this case epitomizes that problem.

HAYES: And, Steve, to me that spells a kind of caution for anyone looking to
make policy pronouncements on this across the political spectrum. I mean,
obviously there are different ways people are thinking about this in terms of
gun safety. But from a sort of counterterrorism perspective, we`re going to
start to see rhetoric heat up on that.

What are you looking for in the debate to follow?

CLEMONS: Well, I`m worried about the debate that follows. I`m worried about some
of the things we`ve heard. You know, just the other day, Donald Trump talked
about bombing the families of people we`re fighting in ISIS. Talking -- we have
some candidates out there talking about returning to the days of Japanese
internment.

I hope it doesn`t go that far. But you`re going to see fear tick up in this
country. And you`re going to see irresponsibility. And I think it`s in these
times of stress in a country where a country really shows what it`s about, it
shows what its norms are, it shows what civil liberties it stands for and it
kind of shows hopefully what a more full vision of democracy really means and
not a society based on fear.

But I think we`re going to be tested very, very strongly in the coming months.

HAYES: Yes, I can feel that too.

Steve Clemons and Mark Follman, thank you both, gentlemen.

FOLLMAN: Thanks, Chris.

HAYES: Still ahead I visited a gun shop today where the owner had to keep
pausing in an interview because so many people were calling. Why, ahead.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: How`s business been?

MIKE WIRZ, GUN SHOP OWNER: Normally the business increases after things of this
nature.

HAYES: Really?

WIRZ: People -- you know, my phone`s been ringing off the hook this morning
about handgun purchases and things of that nature.

Most people that respond to those types of immediate needs for guns don`t
realize what it takes to purchase the gun. They have to file all the
requirements. If they were in another state like Arizona, they could go into a
gun shop, and if they had a clean background and they filled out the same
paperwork, once the background check had been completed...

HAYES: Let`s stop for one second.

WIRZ: You can just turn that off.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: That was part of my interview with California gun shop owner Mike Wirz.
He`s a retired detective from the San Bernardino sheriff`s department and owner
of Wirz Wholesale Shooting Supply in Highland, California. And you can see the
phone was literally ringing off the hook in the wake of yesterday`s deadly
shooting in neighboring San Bernardino.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

HAYES: Sir, you`ve been at this six years. You`re saying that in the wake of big
mass shooting events like this you tend to see interest the next day...

WIRZ: You see people calling that have never owned a gun in their entire life
trying to find out how to purchase a gun, when they can pick it up, when they
get one, where they can get training for firearms.

HAYES: Wwhat is that about?

WIRZ: Just fear in general.

HAYES: It`s fear you think?

WIRZ: Well, because something of this nature affects all the people. I`m a
retired county employee. I know county employees. I know county employees that
work with some of the county employees that were victims yesterday.

And it affects every family member in that group, friends and neighbors and
things like that. And they`re worried that something like this could happen at a
school, as we`ve seen in the past, or in a county Christmas get-together for the
employees of the county.

So not knowing that this would happen, and, you know, Redlands is a very quiet
community. Thinking that somebody living in a town that you`ve lived in most of
your life, that something like this could have come out of something like that,
is something that people start thinking about. They think well, if I had a gun
maybe I could protect myself, protect my family.

So everybody tries to rush out and they don`t realize that you can`t just rush
out and buy a gun and walk out the door.

HAYES: Not in California.

WIRZ: Not in California.

HAYES: Do you anticipate that there will be any -- California`s sort of its own
thing, but do you think there will be any federal action or does it seem like...

WIRZ: Well, we have so many laws on the books right now...

HAYES: It doesn`t really matter in California.

Anything the feds do isn`t going to essentially affect your business.

WIRZ: No.

Well, if the fed outlaws certain purchases or restricts certain gun sales it
affects every state. But the state has -- they`re able to make more restrictive
laws concerning gun ownership and purchase.

And the state of California has been on the leading edge as far as making things
more restrictive. The problem is when somebody comes in with a clean record that
doesn`t mean anything. It just means they don`t have any...

HAYES: Criminals, red flags.

WIRZ: Criminal convictions. Or when they`re reading the federal forms for
firearm purchases, the federal form, and they answer all the questions they`re
answering the questions. That doesn`t mean they`re answering them truthfully.
And a lot of them on the guns that are actually denied through the state of
California, they`ve lied on the questionnaires. They`ve actually said that they
have never been convicted of a crime and obviously, when they run the background
check and they find out, oh, I didn`t think it counted, it was over ten years
ago or five years ago.

But yet on the form they stated they had never been arrested.

HAYES: How many times in a week do you have something come back where you --
where it`s declined?

WIRZ: I probably only get a denial about once every three months. Because most
people that come into my business are law-abiding -- most of them are trap and
skeet shooters and law enforcement officers and stuff like that. Because I have
a large clientele of my former co-workers and stuff that buy guns for friends
and family.

They buy them for themselves or their hobbyist shooters and things like that.
And they have clean backgrounds and they shoot on a weekly basis at different
ranges.

HAYES: Let me ask you this. I want you to answer honestly. It`s a hypothetical.
But say there was some terrible mass shooting around here. And the news came
back and they got the weapon and they traced it back and you`d sold that person
that gun, you`d done it completely legally, they`d passed the background check,
there was no -- you didn`t do anything wrong.

WIRZ: Right.

HAYES: What would -- how would you process that? I mean, is that just -- would
you think, well, that`s just -- that`s on them. They chose to use the weapon
that way? Would there be some part of you that said...

WIRZ: If you would actually have sold something -- and I still have the option
of refusing to sell guns to people. I`ve had gang members come in with family
members, and having been in this area, I know the tattoos, I know the other
things. And when they`re bringing somebody in, they`re bringing their girlfriend
in to look at a gun, and I deny selling the gun to them myself.

but as long as they actually come in and they fit the criteria to purchase them,
you can sell them. Whether you would know what they plan on doing with the
firearm after they purchase this, I wouldn`t have the...

HAYES: No, I mean, if you wake up one morning and you`re reading the paper like
Jesus, I sold that guy that gun that, for instance, was shooting public health
workers...

WIRZ: I didn`t have anything to do with it any more than if I was the car dealer
that sold the Camaro that was used in a drunk driving fatality.

HAYES: Right.

WIRZ: I sold a car.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

HAYES: All right.

Back here in San Bernadino, we appear to be just moments away from a press
conference from law enforcement officials, possibly also some political
officials we`re hearing right over my shoulder right here. We`re going to bring
that to you. Do not go anywhere. That`s next.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HILLARY CLINTON, FRM. U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: It`s important to remember, and I
know this from the work I did as a senator, particularly with law enforcement,
the vast majority of Muslim-Americans are just as concerned and heartbroken
about this as anyone else.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: Hillary Clinton today on yesterday`s horrific mass shooting here in San
Bernardino, once again calling on congress to pass laws to make it harder for
dangerous people to get guns. Later she said the attack increasingly looks like
an act of terrorism.

At the Republican Jewish coalition`s presidential forum in Washington today many
of the Republican presidential candidates also discussed the shooting, though
they offered a somewhat different message.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. TED CRUZ, (R) TEXAS: coming on the wake of the terror attack in Paris, this
horrific murder underscores that we are at a time of war.

CHRIS CHRISTIE, GOVERNOR OF NEW JERSEY: We need to come to grips with the idea
that we are in the midst of the next world war.

SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM, (R) SOUTH CAROLINA: It`s not a gun control issue. This is
not about gun control. If you think the shooting in California is about gun
control, then you don`t understand what`s going on in the world. It`s about two
people who have bought into an ideology that`s just absolutely insane in nature
and has to be combated.

UNIDENITIFIED MALE: Mr. Trump, what`s the solution to stop these mass shootings,
is it gun control? Is it mental health better care?

DONALD TRUMP, 2016 REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Mental health. And it`s
also really strength. We need strength. We have weak government. We need
strength.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: Meanwhile, in the Senate today lawmakers actually voted on an amendment
to prevent people on the government`s terror watch list from purchasing
firearms. The amendment needed 60 votes to pass. It did not get them. Almost
every Republican voted against the measure to keep people on the terror watch
list from buying firearms while almost every Democrat supported it.

Joining me now, Charlie Pierce, writer at large for Esquire.

You know, Charlie, there`s a lot of reason people are skeptical of the terror
watch list. There`s been notorious examples of people like late Senator Ted
Kennedy appearing on the no-fly list and I think those concerns are all valid.

It still strikes me the politics of guns is that one day after this there`s no
movement whatsoever on that vote.

CHARLIE PIERCE, ESQUIRE: No.

I mean, we haven`t -- Chris, we have a tough time in this country with actual
wars. But we`re really bad at our metaphorical wars, especially in this regard.

We`re fighting a war on drugs, but we can`t keep from arming the drug dealers.
We`re fighting a war on terror, but we can keep guys off airplanes, but we can`t
keep them from buying an assault weapon. This doesn`t strike me as -- if we are
engaged in the next world war, as Chris Christie says, we`re fighting it really
badly.

HAYES: Well, that use of that metaphor, that it was striking to me that Ted Cruz
and Chris Christie both invoked war in the wake of this. I mean, obviously
there`s an active war the U.S. is waging in Iraq and now parts of Syria, both
with air strikes and ground forces. They`re not called boots on the ground, but
they essentially are.

But it`s also -- it`s so striking the difference as soon as everyone learns who
did it and starts to speculate why they did, something goes from something you
can kind of brush off like the horrible shooting in Oregon community college to
an example of essentially a civilizational struggle.

PIERCE: Yeah. I think there`s more than a bit of threat inflation in this.

I mean, I spent a weekend in Iowa following Marco Rubio around for a piece
that`s coming up in Esquire and he was very much into this is a civilizational
struggle and if we don`t win then they win.

Now, what you`re dealing with still is a rump faction of barbarians in one
particular part of the world. I do not think they are a threat to western
civilization unless their activities become so heinous that western civilization
decides to commit suicide to stop it.

HAYES: Right. And you can see now it`s really going to be interesting I think to
see how this reverberates through the political system. The Paris attacks were
-- the rhetoric got so heated so quickly that we`re going to see how the
political system reacts.

And Democrats have definitely been aggressive. I mean, Hillary Clinton today and
the Senate Democrats, seeing this as an opportunity to push gun safety
legislation that they`ve been trying to get passed now for years since
essentially Newtown.

PIERCE: Yeah. I mean, also significant I think was the instant rapid response on
all the Republican tweets about thoughts and prayers going out, which got turned
around very quickly into everything from the front page of the New York Daily
News down and saying thoughts and prayers are fine, but let`s do something about
the weapons that are causing this problem.

HAYES: Charlie, do you think there`s something -- do you think this is going to
play out, having been on the campaign trail in Iowa with Marco Rubio, how much
fundamentally is the election going to come down to these two issues that are
sort of front and center in the wake of something like this? This idea of a
civilizational war against radical Islam and guns. Those were not at the top of
the agenda for voters three months ago, five months ago and they may not be on
the top of the agenda for voters in a month.

PIERCE: No.

I think in the immediate future, and by that I include the Iowa caucuses and the
New Hampshire primary, they`re going to be front and center. After that it all
depends on whether or not another one of these things happens. I mean, if that`s
the case, you are looking at a very ugly presidential campaign.

HAYES: Yeah, that is true.

Charlie Pierce, thank you very much.

All right, we`re going to have more live from San Bernardino ahead. Don`t go
anywhere.

HAYES: We`ve got word this press conference we`ve been anticipating is going to
start soon and in attendance will be Governor Jerry Brown along with some local
law enforcement officials. We`re going to keep an eye on that and bring it to
you right as soon as that happens. Stick around.

GOV. JERRY BROWN, (D) CALIFORNIA: ...California, for San Bernadino, for the
families of the victims, we face a real threat, but we have a fabulous group of
people: sheriffs, policemen, FBI, other personnel. We`re all working together.
And we have to rise above all the jurisdictions that we`re a part of and we`re
working as one group, one people.

And my concern is to make sure that everything that can be done is being done
and going forward that the state of California provides the resources and works
very closely with both local officials and our federal counterparts to make sure
that we can protect the people of California.

When it comes to people who engage in these kind of vicious, brutal acts, we`ll
spare nothing in bringing them to justice and protecting the people along the
way.

So I don`t know what this means going forward, but I think we have to be on our
guard. We can`t take anything for granted. And I just want to assure my fellow
citizens here in California that we`re going to go just as far as we have to to
make sure that public safety is protected. Thank you.

MIKE RAMOS, SAN BERNADINO COUNTY DISTRICT ATTORNEY: First and foremost, I want
to thank the governor for being here. I`m Mike Ramos, district attorney. I`m a
very fortunate district attorney. We are working cooperatively with the U.S.
attorney`s office, U.S. attorney Irene Decker. And I can`t tell you how proud I
am of the teamwork of both our local agency, San Bernardino police department,
the sheriff`s department, and our federal partners, the FBI and others.

And finally, as the district attorney, we are very saddened of the loss of the
victims, family members, some family of attorneys in my office and we are going
to be there for the victims.

If you go to @SBCountyDA on the Twitter, you will have a direct line for victim
services, any other family members that need support and help, we will be there
for you. Thank you.

DAVID BOWDICH, FBI: Good evening.

First of all, I want to thank you for your patience. As we`ve said from day one,
this is a marathon, not a sprint. It`s a tragedy that occurred. We will continue
to do everything in our power, bringing all the resources to bear of the federal
government to work hand in hand with our state and local partners in this
matter.

We continue to exploit all the evidence possible. And as I`ve said from day one,
the evidence will lead us to the facts. We will go where the evidence takes us.
Thank you again for your patience.

CHIEF JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNADINO POLICE: Good evening, everybody. Thank you
very much for being patient. I know we were going to try to do this a little bit
earlier. 4:30 was what we were shooting for, we just couldn`t quite make that
happen. But thanks for sticking with us.

Were we able to get those pictures up? So we have some pictures of the crime
scene where the officer-involved shooting took place. We`ll able to provide
digital copies of those images online for everybody that wants them.

But they are pictures of the weapons. They are pictures of the suspect vehicle
and a few others in there. We wanted to provide that.

Additionally, I`ve got a few more statistics and numbers for folks just as an
update from earlier information we have put out.

As we said, this was a department of public health event. As it turns out, it
was an event that was training in the morning that was transitioning to a
holiday Christmas party luncheon in the afternoon. And this happened right about
the time of that transition.

There were 91 invited guests that were there. We believe that there were about
75 to 80 people that were present in the room when this occurred, or that
ultimately came to that party. We don`t have the exact number because they had a
sign-in list and we`re still working through some of those dynamics. We don`t
know that everybody signed in.

Of the 21 people that were injured, 18 of them have been identified as county
employees.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: How many?

BURGUAN: 18 of the 21 were county employees, the other 3 were not county
employees.

of the 14 people that are deceased and their identities have been released now,
12 of those individuals were county employees, county of San Bernardino, two of
them were not.

And then finally, one of the questions that came from the media is that you
wanted to hear from one of the first responders when we responded to this on
Wednesday morning. So I`d like to introduce Lieutenant Mike Madden. Spelling is
M-I-K-E last of M-A-D-D-E-N.

Mike is actually one of our administrative commanders for the police department.
He`s a 24-year veteran. As an administrative guy he really has a desk job. The
reality is at 11:00 in the morning on Wednesday Mike was on his way to lunch
when this call went out and he didn`t -- Mike was the first officer that was on
scene, and he was the first person that we had that gathered, the first units
that went in and addressed this.

So I`m going to let Mike kind of tell the story of what they experienced
firsthand and then we`ll take a few questions for Mike as soon as he`s done.

LT. MIKE MADDEN, SAN BERNADINO COUNTY POLICE DEPARTMENT: thank you, sir.

I guess I was just asked to come forward and talk a little bit about what it was
that we saw and we experienced yesterday. And I`ll tell you that it was
something that although we trained for it it`s something that you`re never
actually prepared for.

When we got the call -- I oversee dispatch. It`s one of my functions and
responsibilities with the police department. And I know my dispatchers. I know
the tone of their voice. I know the severity of calls as they`re going out. And
I could hear it in our dispatcher`s voice that this was actually happening, this
was a real event, and it was the event that, you know, we have an active shooter
and we have an active shooter going on in our city.

And I was nearby. I was less than a mile away. And I started coming this way.
And I realized as I was getting closer that I was one of the very first units
there. Myself and Officer Shawn Sandoval arrived almost simultaneously and just
out of pure luck, because the information was evolving so rapidly. It was out of
pure luck that I happened to pull into the right location, which was just south.

The road that you see here just north of us. It was just south of the building
where this tragedy took place. As I was looking and seeing all of the activity
and trying to assess what was happening, I was informed that there was -- that
that was the location where this was happening. And I was asking for officers to
respond as quickly as possible because we had every belief at that time that we
had people still actively being shot inside of the building.

My goal was to assemble an entry team and enter into the building to engage the
active shooter. This mindset and this type of training became indoctrinated in
us after the Columbine incident, and that was the goal, that we wanted to get in
there and we wanted to stop any further innocent people from being injured and
possibly killed.

As three officers arrived, there was an approximate two-minute time lapse from
the time that I got there until we had a team assembled of our four initial
responding officers, and the four of us then went around the south side of the
building.

As we made our way around to the east side, it was immediately evident that the
reports we were getting were 100 percent true. There were victims who were
clearly, obviously deceased outside of the conference room.

And I relayed that information to the other responding officers and again
requested assistance.

As we entered into the conference room, the situation was surreal. It was
something I don`t think, again, we prepare for. And they try to -- an active
shooter we talk about sensory overload. They just try to throw everything at you
to prepare you for dealing with that. What you`re seeing, what you`re hearing,
what you`re smelling. And it was all of that and more. It was unspeakable.

The carnage that we were seeing, the number of people who were injured and
unfortunately already dead. And the pure panic on the face of those individuals
that were still in need and needing to be safe.

We asked -- we got as many people out as quickly as we could. We had
approximately -- I estimated in talking with the other officers who were with me
probably 50 people responded past us and out the doors. And then we went further
into the building. And that was a difficult choice to have to make as well,
passing people that we knew were injured and in need of assistance, but our goal
at that time had to be to try to locate the shooters and deal with them before
we could get further assistance in for those people in need of medical
attention.

I was very glad to see that in a very short period of time we had a number of
other responders that came in and were able to formulate tactical teams and then
continue on with the search.

And I was then able to pull back from the situation and go back to more of a
supervisory role and allowing other officers to continue with the remainder of
the search.

Does anybody have any questions?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: did you think it was still an active shooter? What were you
thinking about in terms of there might still be someone in the room?

And my second question is how are you doing personally? How are you handling
this?

MADDEN: First question there was we absolutely believed there was another
shooter. We were told that there were as many as potentially three shooters. But
again, we were getting information from multiple callers and people weren`t, you
know, clear as to exactly how many shooters we did or did not have.

Some were seen potentially reporting double, you know, suspects and things of
that nature.

So we were told that one of the suspects had possibly fled in the black vehicle
prior to our arrival, but there were as many potentially as two more shooters
inside. And when we entered, there was fresh gunpowder and the smell of
gunpowder in the air leading me to believe that there was in fact -- there were
in fact shooters still.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You are trained for this, obviously. (inaudible) never been
trained for when this happens (inaudible). How emotional was it for you? I mean,
(inaudible) there are tears in your eyes right now.

MADDEN: You know, you -- to be honest, you guys, it was a little surreal. It was
-- you`re trained for it. And you know your job is dealing in reality. But it
seemed a little surreal. But yet I did the job I was supposed to do.

THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE
UPDATED.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120301cb.478

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript

                       Copyright 2015 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              Copyright 2015 MSNBC


                               18 of 24 DOCUMENTS


                                     MSNBC

                           December 3, 2015 Thursday

                    SHOW: THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW 9:00 PM EST

THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW for December 3, 2015

BYLINE: Rachel Maddow, Chris Jansing, Pete Williams

GUESTS: Jack Dolan, Scriven King

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 7795  words



HIGHLIGHT: MSNBC`s coverage of the mass shooting in San Bernardino, California.
All combat jobs in the United States military will now be open to women.


LT. MIKE MADDEN, FIRST POLICE OFFICER ON SCENE: It seemed a little surreal. But
yet I did the job I was supposed to do. My job is to go in there, and people
don`t call the police because they`re having a great day. They call because
there`s tragedy going on and this was tragedy that I`ve never experienced in my
career. And that I don`t think most officers do.

And so, we had to deal with it and bring them to safety and bring some kind of
calm to the chaos that was going on. So just knowing, though, that yeah, we
resolved that situation quickly but there`s so much tragedy left behind. There
are so many families as we go into these holiday season that are now going to
have to deal with the tragedy that were left behind by the senseless acts of
violence. That`s a little tough to deal with.

REPORTER: You talked about the panic that you saw in people`s faces. How did you
deal with them? What do you say to them? How do you calm them down when you
yourself are going through this chaotic situation?

MADDEN: You know, you have to be clear in your orders. The initial 50 people did
not want to come to us. They were fearful. And they were in the back hallway
area. And that actually heightened my concern and my fear that potentially the
suspects were in that hallway holding them hostage and waiting for us to enter
into the hallway. We had to tell them several times come to us, come to us. And
ultimately they did.

And once that first person took the motions forward, it opened the floodgates
and everybody wanted to come and get away from that as quickly as possible. We
can`t panic in those situations. These people have dealt with enough. The last
thing they need to see is their police officers panicking.

REPORTER: Was it silent in there? Or did you hear screams? Can you talk a little
bit about this, (INAUDIBLE) people you`re taking in?

MADDEN: It was extremely loud. The fire alarms were going off. There were people
who were obviously injured and obviously in great amounts of pain. That was
evidence in the moans and the wails we were hearing in the room. It was very
loud in the room. And we also had fire sprinklers going off inside the room.
That was adding to the chaos.

REPORTER: And immediately trying to offer information about the shooters or did
you get a sense to realize what had just happened?

MADDEN: My primary goal was to find out how many and where they were. And I was
asking individuals, but again, panic was obvious and apparent. So we weren`t
getting a lot of information in regards to that.

REPORTER: Did you find the -- did your team find the bomb?

MADDEN: No. Our team did not find any of the explosive devices. Those were found
later.

REPORTER: The room that there was a holiday party, were there decorations, food,
tables, chairs?

MADDEN: That sums it up. Yes, it was. It`s a fairly large meeting room. And I
noticed upon entry that there`s a Christmas tree in there. All of the tables
were decorated for a Christmas party. And it just -- it just seemed so senseless
that here`s people going into their holiday festivities and now we were dealing
with that.

REPORTER: You talked about the training that you have. But how do you stay calm?
Do you take deep breaths going in there? Did you think about it? Did you feel
the adrenaline going through your system?

MADDEN: Yes, I`m sure I did. But you can`t let your emotions override your
judgment, and you need to do the job that we`re supposed to do. It`s what we`re
trained to do.

REPORTER: What has it been like over the last day and a half? (INAUDIBLE) but
you, yourself, and the other responding officers.

MADDEN: You know, I`ve tried to make a point of those officers that I knew were
some of the initial guys in with us, which there were many officers who did
extraordinary jobs yesterday for our department and also for all of the agencies
who responded so quickly. It was just -- it was truly overwhelming to see all
the agencies that got here and got here in a hurry to provide us assistance
because just like I said, I was sensing that this was a true event. They had the
same sense. And they got here and nobody hesitated.

People knew what their job was, and their job was to try to bring some calm to
chaos. So it`s one of those things. You k now, we -- I`ve gone around. I`ve
tried to contact our officers. I tried to assess how they`re doing. Talk a
little bit about it. And in doing that maybe that`s helping me a little bit as
well. So, I think we`ll all work through it together.

REPORTER: There`s a video showing the incredible courage of an officer who`s
helping people trying to get out saying I will take a bullet before you do, I`m
sure of it. Was that you? And if not, who was that? And can you --

MADDEN: No, I`d like to think I was that cool. But no. Unfortunately, that
wasn`t.

I don`t know that that officer has been officially identified as of yet, but I`m
told he`s one of Sheriff McMahon`s folks. But again, I haven`t had that
confirmed.

REPORTER: What was your reaction when you saw that?

MADDEN: I`m sorry?

REPORTER: What was your reaction when you saw that video?

MADDEN: I saw that everywhere yesterday. That was what was happening everywhere
during this event.

REPORTER: Could you address the pride that you felt with the men and women and
the manner in which they acted in that scene yesterday, and can you just address
how you felt about those men and women that were under your command?

MADDEN: You know, we`ve taken a lot of hits lately. Some justified. Much of it
not justified. And it takes a toll. It takes a toll on all cops because it`s
hard being -- it`s hard being labeled and hard being branded as, you know, being
rogue or, you know -- and I guarantee you that no cop comes into this job with
the mindset oh, great, now I have ultimate power to be corrupt and to violate
people`s rights.

There are cops who go astray. But overwhelmingly, the vast majority of officers,
and when I say vast majority I`m talking 99.5 percent of the officers go out and
they do the job to protect the public, and yesterday just reminded me of that.
And it just solidified that again in my heart and in my mindset. And for that
I`m -- for that I`m thankful.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We`re going to take two more questions.

REPORTER: You were on patrol that day. What did you hear from the residents --
obviously this is sinking in with a lot of people in this community. What have
they told you?

MADDEN: You know, not just myself but every officer who I`m encountering right
now is getting the same kind of positive encouragement and support because
again, I think this -- we can never underlie the tragedy that befell the city
and so many families yesterday. But there is support for law enforcement.

REPORTER: Was there a moment when you realized the threat you were facing had a
level of sophistication, that they had some level of training? And just to
follow up on that, did they leave anything behind in the way of a manifesto or
any notes?

MADDEN: It was pretty clear when we knew we had an active shooter and when we
saw the severity and the amount of carnage upon our initial entry that this was
-- that this wasn`t just a rogue individual. There was something more. So as far
as us finding any kind of manifesto, no, sir. I don`t have any information in
regards to that.

Thank you.

JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE CHIEF: So, real quickly, Mike made
reference early on that this was hard to believe that this was happening in his
town. Mike was raised in this town, went to high school in this town, spent the
majority of his law enforcement career in this town. It`s genuine when he says
that, that he felt that this was his town being attacked.

So with that, thank you for being here, folks. We will be back in the morning
for another press conference. And I believe somebody from the sheriff`s
department might stand by to talk about the photos and get the digital images.
Thank you very much, folks.

RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: We`re expecting that to be the last official delivery
of information this evening from local authorities and in fact federal law
enforcement authorities on scene in San Bernardino tonight.

I`m Rachel Maddow at MSNBC headquarters in New York. Thank you for being with us
tonight.

That was a briefing which is very different from the other briefings that we`ve
had from law enforcement. The first difference is it started with a short but
serious statement from the governor of California, governor of California,
Governor Jerry Brown, addressing reporters briefly saying we will go as far as
we have to, to make sure public safety is protected. We also heard from the
district attorney, who talked about working with federal prosecutors as well.

We did get some new information from the San Bernardino County police chief. But
the -- and I`ll talk about that in just one second.

The bulk of what we just heard, though, was a remarkable first-person account
from a San Bernardino police lieutenant named Mike Madden who was the first
police officer on scene. We`ve not previously had him made available in terms of
talking to the press. But he just told a remarkable personal story about being
literally the first responder to this event. He`s a lieutenant in the San
Bernardino Police Department.

He said one of his responsibilities at the department is that he oversees
dispatch. So he oversees the whole system of sending officers out to potential
crime scenes in that community. And he said because of his role in overseeing
dispatch, he could tell by ear, he could tell from the voices and the tone that
was being used by the people who were working in the dispatch center that
something very serious was under way. He was only about a mile away from the
scene when those calls came out.

Again, he said he just personally recognized that this was going to be a big
deal. He immediately went to the scene. He was the first one there.

And then he just gave this remarkable recounting of the decision-making process
that he alone had to go through, and then he and the other officers that arrived
soon after he did in terms of honestly having to walk around and choose to not
help people who were hurt and who were calling out for help and who needed help.
But they were trained. He`s actually cited the Columbine incident specifically.
He said they were trained after that incident that what you need to do is not
attend to the victims there. You need to find the threat and stop the threat.

He said they believed at that time when they entered the scene that there were
still according to reports between one and three shooters still inside. He said
he had heard reports that there had been assailants who had potentially left the
scene in a black SUV, they had heard those responses but he didn`t know
especially because there might have been multiple assailants if some people who
were still inside who were the bad actors, the people who had caused this event.

He said knowing that they had to walk past people who were hurt, people who were
wounded in order to try to clear the scene, in order to try to find out if the
shooters were still there.

Specifically, he talked about two I found very moving instances. One was the
difficulty of trying to persuade the survivors, the people who had just gone
through this gun massacre, trying to persuade them that it was same to come to
police officers, that they could leave the back hall or the other areas of that
building where they had hidden or they had ended up as survivors from that
scene. It was hard as police officers to persuade people it was safe to come
with them as officers in order to get it of there.

The other thing he described, though, was just the sensory experience of being
in there, the loudness of it. We had heard from law enforcement earlier in the
day that one of the things that complicated that as a scene that need to be
cleared and ultimately as a scene that needs to be investigated was that the
fire sprinklers went off. We don`t exactly know why. The police chief had
earlier speculated that it`s possible some element of the sprinkler system had
been hit by a bullet and maybe that set it off.

But for whatever reason, as this officer described, again, Lieutenant Mike
Madden who was first on the scene, he said those fire alarms were going off and
the sprinklers were going off, and people were screaming in pain who had been
hurt. We now know 21 people had been hurt.

So, that was -- it didn`t necessarily add to the bullet points of factual
information that we had about exactly what happened here and why it may have
happened, but that was the most remarkable first person account we`ve heard from
any law enforcement officer who`s been involved in this at all. In terms of the
new information we`ve just been given, and again, we don`t expect a further
briefing from law enforcement tonight, the San Bernardino police chief who`s
done so much of this briefing, Police Chief Jarrod Burguan from San Bernardino,
he gave some very specific new information tonight.

First, they did release some new pictures, pictures that were recovered from the
scene of the shootout we believe with officers. As you can see there, some of
the images they`re releasing to the public right now as we speak are of weapons
that were recovered at the scene. We believe those to be the weapons used by the
shooters at the Inland Regional Center. They were recovered at that SUV, both
long guns and handguns. You see extra magazines there.

Also pictures of the vehicle in which those suspects engaged in this incredibly
intense shootout with police. We`ve been told that a lot of ammunition was
recovered at the scene. That obviously would be some of that ammunition. So,
they`re releasing those pictures. They were also able to be specific about the
event that was the site of the shooting. The police chief saying just tonight
that it was a department of public health event.

So, this was a San Bernardino County of public health event. And there had been
conflicting reports about whether this was some sort of meeting or whether it
was a banquet or whether it was a holiday party. We now know it was a little bit
of each. As the police chief described it, it was sort of training in the
morning that was transitioning to a holiday party in the afternoon.

We also for the first time have some numbers in terms of the number of people
who may have been on scene. We`ve been told the room in which the massacre
happened held something like 200 or 250 people in terms of its capacity. We
hadn`t previously known how many people might have been in that room. And by
extension what proportion of those people were hurt or wounded -- hurt or
killed.

We now know according to the police chief that there were 91 invited guests at
that event and they had some sort of sign-in sheet to check people in as they
arrived. 91 people were invited. They believe somewhere between 71 and 80 people
were in the room when the shooting actually happened.

Of that number of people we now know a significant proportion were killed or
wounded. Again, if there were 80 people in that room and we`re talking about 14
people killed and 21 people wounded, 35 people out of 80 being shot is
remarkable. In terms of the people who were killed and who were wounded, we do
also have some -- we have names of the victims in terms of those who were killed
that we`ll be talking about a little later on tonight.

But we were also told for the first time tonight the proportion of them who were
county employees. There were 14 people killed in total. 12 of the 14 were San
Bernardino county employees.

Of the people who were wounded, we know there were 21 people wounded, 18 of the
21 people wounded were also San Bernardino County employees.

So, I mean, you think about this as a tragedy of national, potentially
international proportions, but it is also in one very specific way a very, very
devastating local event.

Joining us live from the scene now in San Bernardino is NBC News correspondent
Chris Jansing, who was at this press conference that just wrapped up a few
moments ago and who`s been on the scene all day.

Chris, thank you very much for being with us. I appreciate it.

CHRIS JANSING, NBC NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Happy to be here.

MADDOW: That summary that I just gave of what we learned from the press
conference tonight, is that basically it in terms of new information? Have we
learned anything tonight in this press conference and from other sources tonight
that is new?

JANSING: I think what we have heard here really, Rachel, and you hit on it, is
in addition to people who were killed and those who were wounded there are a lot
of victims here and some of them are the people who had to go into that room and
make those stuff decisions. This is something that they will live with for the
rest of their lives, as the families of the victims will, as this entire
community will. A phrase that he used that really struck me was that his job was
to try to bring calm to the chaos.

And he did in such a sort of calm way express what a horrifying scene it was
that immediately, when he went in there, he recognized that it was as horrible
as they thought it was, that immediately they realized that people had died. And
he described the other people as being in a case of pure panic.

And you mentioned that so many police officers, but this one in particular said
after columbine we were trained for this. They tried to give you a sense of even
the smells and the sounds of what it`s like and nothing can prepare you for
this. And I was at Columbine. And since then I`ve been to a lot of these,
unfortunately, Charleston very recently and Aurora, and Arizona.

And the stories from these first responders are remarkably the same, that what
they enter is a place of horror that is absolutely indescribable. The decisions
that they have to make are truly matters of life and death, and just being able
to convince people. And I`ve talked to so many people who have been in that
situation where they`re being told it`s OK now, you can come out and you can
just imagine the abject terror that they`re feeling in a situation like this.
So, for me, to hear something like that in a situation like a press conference.

And two other quick things that struck me. One, when they gave those numbers, 14
victims but 12 of them were employees. And you know, there`s been a story over
the last 24 hours about how they realize when he left he left his jacket behind.
They knew him, and he knew them.

This wasn`t somebody walking into a place and just opening fire on nameless,
essentially faceless people. These were his co-workers. These were people he
knew. And he also said what struck him was that there were Christmas
decorations. There was a tree. There were decorations on the table.

And I can tell you that when I went to Newtown, when I passed the sign that said
Newtown, the first thing I noticed is houses decorated for Christmas. And what
came to mind at that moment was there are presents under trees that children
will never open.

And I think in this season I can see where this officer and the other first
responders who had to go into that room, the juxtaposition of the celebratory
nature of the decorations and the horror of what happened there was intense and
something that they`ll be dealing with obviously for a very long time, Rachel.

MADDOW: Chris Jansing in San Bernardino -- Chris, thank you very much for that.
I know it`s still a long night ahead reporting. Thank you, Chris. I appreciate
it.

JANSING: Thank you.

MADDOW: I will say, you know, what Chris was just describing there, in terms of
hearing the same type of accounts from first responders, what people talk about
in situations like this, whether or not the shooting is ongoing when they don`t
know if the shooting is ongoing, the decisions they have to make to walk past
people who are hurt and who want help, we heard that just recently in Paris. You
may remember that remarkable interview that Lester Holt did with the SWAT team
captain, the commando French police captain who was wearing a ski mask when he
was talking to him.

And even that veteran of many elite commando-style raids talking about how
devastating it was for him to have to step over people who were hurt and needed
help and were asking for help. And you could potentially help them. But more
than that, you had to stop the event from being an ongoing event. More than
that, you had to find the shooter and stop them.

It`s an American -- it`s an aspect of American law enforcement as this
lieutenant said tonight. Since Columbine, they train that way. But they train
that way with these elite forces around the globe too because that`s the way
they have to do it.

And it has a human toll on police just like it does -- just like it would on
anyone. So, we`re getting an important I think picture of that tonight. But
we`re also still getting new information including on this -- I don`t want to
say all-important but this incredibly important question of motive. And about
the links of these suspects in this shooting, the suspects who have died, who
have been found in that SUV, the links between them and other people in the
world who may have inspired this, other people in the world who may have been
involved in purchasing any of these weapons.

A lot on the investigation side of this is still very, very important stuff that
we`ve mostly still got questions about and we`ve got the latest on that
investigation with NBC`s Pete Williams right after this.

Stay with us.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MADDEN: I`ll tell you that it was something d that although we trained for it
it`s something you`re never actually prepared for. When we got the call -- I
oversee dispatch. It`s one of my functions and responsibilities with the police
department.

And I know my dispatchers. I know the tone of their voice. I know the severity
of calls as they`re going out. And I could hear it in our dispatcher`s voice,
that this was actually happening, this was a real event, and it was the event
that we have an active shooter and we have an active shooter going on in our
city.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

GOV. JERRY BROWN (D), CALIFORNIA: When it comes to people who engaged in these
kind of vicious brutal acts, we`ll spare nothing in bringing them to justice and
protecting the people along the way. So I don`t know what this means going
forward, but I think we have to be on our guard. We can`t take anything for
granted.

And I just want to assure my fellow citizens here in California that we`re going
to go just as far as we have to, to make sure that public safety is protected.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MADDOW: California Governor Jerry Brown speaking just moments ago, saying we`re
going to go as far as we have to, to make sure public safety is protected,
saying we will spare nothing in terms of bringing them to justice.

We don`t know what he means by that. I`m not sure what he means by that. At this
point, what we`re getting is statements of resolve. We`re not getting statements
about what`s next.

But what we know about the investigation into this crime is next here on this
show with NBC`s Pete Williams.

Stay with us.

MADDOW: So, at this hour, we still have an incomplete picture of the suspects
and their motives. In terms of what we do know, we know they have at least four
guns, we know they had a ton of ammunition both on them when they were killed
and also inside a residence in Redlands, California, that investigators are
still combing through.

At the scene of the shooting in San Bernardino yesterday morning and at that
same residence, we also know they had assembled numerous pipe bombs, although we
don`t know much about the sort of quality and character of those bombs, we just
know there were 12 of them at that house and one of them that appears to be
three pipe bombs strung together in some way that did not explode at the site of
the shooting.

We also know the suspects had traveled internationally fairly recently. There
are also now indications that at least one of the suspects may have been
radicalized in some way.

I can`t be more specific about that but joining us now is NBC News justice
correspondent Pete Williams, who`s been following this investigation very
closely.

Pete, what can you tell us about the investigation, particularly into radical
ties from one or both of these suspects?

PETE WILLIAMS, NBC NEWS JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: Right. Well, law enforcement
officials are not saying at this point whether either of these two people were,
quote/unquote, "radicalized". What they do know is Syed Farook was in touch by
electronic means, by the cell phone, by telephone, by social media, with people
who had radical jihadist views, both in the U.S. and overseas.

Some of these people had gone on and off the list of people that the FBI and
local law enforcement had been keeping an eye on over the years. In some cases
it was sort of a glancing kind of conversation. In some cases it may have been
more extensive.

But did that indicate a -- just seeking out like-minded individuals, or was that
something that moved them toward a more radical philosophy? They have no idea of
that yet. So, if he was radicalized, if this was radical jihadism brought to the
U.S., where did that come from? They don`t know the answer to that.

They don`t know whether it was through the Internet, as some people have become
radicalized. They don`t know whether it was on foreign travel. He`d been to
Saudi Arabia twice. He`d been to Pakistan at least once. They just don`t know.

That is one of the main reasons why they`re not saying whether this was an act
of terrorism or some kind of -- something else.

MADDOW: Should we expect those people he was in contact with are now going to be
questioned, are going to be contacted in some way, be brought into the
investigation by U.S. authorities?

WILLIAMS: You certainly should. And some of them already have been. In some
cases, the FBI has determined that nothing much happened there. But that`s one
of the lines of inquiry.

Another is the electronic devices themselves. Did they find things that were
downloaded on the Internet? For example, if you think about the Boston marathon
bombing investigation, officials made much of the fact that the Tsarnaev
brothers had downloaded copies of the al Qaeda magazine "Inspire". They believe
that`s where they got the instructions to build their bombs.

Now, you mentioned the remote-controlled device that was three pipe bombs taped
together that the police say was left in the conference room that was attacked.
They say that had a remote-controlled detonator made from parts of a model car.
And the remote controller in the car also was that same kind of model car remote
control. The recipe to build that is very similar to what the Tsarnaev brothers
used for their remote detonator from an issue of the al Qaeda magazine
"Inspire".

So, did Syed Farook get his recipe for that from "Inspire"? That`s a possibility
they`re looking at. Was there some place to find those same instructions that
wasn`t in a jihadist kind of a circuit? They`re looking at that as well.

MADDOW: In terms of cell phones and computers and anything else that was
obtained here, I`m thinking particularly from that house in Redlands if that was
in fact where they were residing or at least where they were working, do we know
anything in terms of the timing, when that stuff will be turned around, how
quickly the FBI works on stuff like that?

WILLIAMS: Well, it can happen very fast. Except we`ve been told that they
intentionally tried to damage some of these things. They were damaging hard
drives, smashing cell phones. So, it`s going to slow that process down
considerably.

Now, they`ve shipped a lot of that material back. They`ve got airplanes that are
taking material every day, sometimes twice a day, from San Bernardino to the FBI
lab here in suburban Washington where they have some experience at looking at
damaged computer parts to see if they can recover data.

It doesn`t always work, but sometimes it can be successful. Someone thinks
they`ve rendered their hard drive inoperable. Well, they can figure out ways to
recover some of the data. It`s not easy. And the main thing is it takes a lot
more time.

So to answer your question, it`s going to take longer.

MADDOW: NBC News justice correspondent Pete Williams -- totally indispensable,
as usual, in situations like this. Pete, thank you very much.

WILLIAMS: OK. You bet.

MADDOW: We`re going to have more on the mass shooting in San Bernardino, what
else is going on in the world, straight ahead. Stay with us.

MADDOW: At this hour, there are multiple vigils for the victims in yesterday`s
shooting that are just getting under way in San Bernardino. You`re looking at
live pictures from what is expected to be the largest vigil of the night. This
is a stadium in San Bernardino called San Manuel Stadium. That vigil tonight,
it`s a stadium that holds about 4,000 people. You can see it`s filling up
quickly.

That vigil tonight is being hosted by the city itself. That`s in addition to a
number of other smaller vigils and memorials under way at local churches, as
well as a nearby mosque. All in honor of the 14 people killed and the 21 people
hurt in yesterday`s attack.

One of the new pieces of information we`ve received tonight is the names of all
14 people who were killed in this attack. Those names have now all been released
by the county coroner.

Larry Daniel Kaufman. He apparently ran the coffee shop at the Inland Regional
Center, which is where the attack happened.

Damian Meins, he was an employee of the San Bernardino County of Environmental
Health.

Sierra Clayborn, she`d been working with the county and Environmental Health
Department since 2013.

Nicholas Thalasinos, he was a county health inspector.

Michael Wetzel worked as a supervising environmental health specialist with the
county.

Bennetta Bet-Badal, she was a county health inspector.

Robert Adams was an environmental health specialist with the county.

The other victims, their names we have are Shannon Johnson, Aurora Godoy, Isaac
Amanios, Harry Bowman, Yvette Velasco, Tin Nguyen, Juan Espinoza.

Fourteen people killed in this attack altogether, 21 wounded. And as we have
just learned this hour, of the 14 people killed, 12 of them, 12 of the 14 were
employees of the county of San Bernardino. Of the 21 people who were wounded, 18
of them were county employees as well.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MADDEN: As I was looking and seeing all of the activity and trying to assess
what was happening, I was informed that that was the location where this was
happening and I was asking for officers to respond as quickly as possible
because we had every belief at that time we had people still actively being shot
inside of the building. My goal was to assemble an entry team and enter into the
building to engage the active shooter.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MADDOW: San Bernardino Police Lieutenant Mike Madden, who was the first officer
on scene, who gave a remarkable first-person account tonight of having been the
first law enforcement officer on scene, what he encountered when he got inside
the scene of that mass shooting yesterday.

Joining us now is Jack Dolan. He`s an investigative reporter for "The L.A.
Times." He`s been among other things look into the backgrounds of the two
suspects and trying to answer some of the unknown knowns here.

Jack Dolan, thank you very much for being with us.

JACK DOLAN, LOS ANGELES TIMES INVESTIGATIVE REPORTER: Good evening.

MADDOW: One of the things I wanted to ask about specifically was the guns. We`re
told that there were four guns recovered from the two suspects who were deceased
in the SUV. They believe they were all purchased legally and they said two of
the guns were purchased by one of the named suspects who`s deceased.

Are we any closer to knowing who the other legal furrier was of the other guns
and how those guns might have made it to these suspects?

DOLAN: No, not so far tonight. But the primary shooter, alleged shooter, Syed
Farook, there was nothing in his background that would have prevented him from
buying a gun legally. You know, he had a really, really mundane record here in
southern California. So nothing would have stopped him.

And then his wife, Tashfeen -- I mean, she`s such a recent arrival that public
records usually don`t turn up anything on somebody like that. We have as much
access to them as frankly the people doing criminal background checks in
California. And there would be nothing in either of their backgrounds that we
can see that would have prevented it.

MADDOW: And so, I mean, that doesn`t necessarily mean that they were trying to
evade a background check system that they would have passed anyway. I mean, it`s
possible they had a private sale of some kind because they found guns they
wanted cheaply for sale somewhere else.

In terms of figuring out whether or not there is ties to terrorism, ties to
radical extremists of some kind, do you have any sense of what direction the
investigation is going or if there`s anything that`s known about them from the
local community and either of their backgrounds that`s been a real red flag so
far?

DOLAN: Well, what we know from federal officials is that, you know, Syed Farook
made two trips overseas, to Saudi Arabia in the last couple of years. One was to
go to the Hajj in Mecca, and other was just last year to go pick up the woman
he`d met online and that he planned to marry. So, there`s nothing in that
inherently that`s a red flag.

But certainly last night when my colleague and I, Steven Caesar, were reaching
out to employees of the San Bernardino Health Department, trying to find anybody
who might have witnessed it, we happened upon people who were not only sitting
at the table with him at that party where the shooting occurred but they were
also -- one was his cubicle mate. Another sat like four feet away.

And they were telling us -- well, he`s Muslim, but he`s not devout, he`s not
evangelical. He doesn`t proselytize. But he did, by the way, make a trip to
Saudi Arabia to pick up, you know, a woman he`d never met and bring her back as
his wife.

And the fact that she was a part of this shooting -- I mean, women just are not
-- you don`t want to be sexist, but women are not generally part of mass
shootings.

MADDOW: Right.

DOLAN: So you can certainly see why the FBI is looking into her background.

MADDOW: Jack Dolan, investigative reporter for "The L.A. Times" -- thank you for
your time tonight, and thanks for your reporting. We`ve all been following it
very closely. Thanks, Jack.

DOLAN: Thanks.

MADDOW: All right. We`ve got more ahead on this and other matters. Stay with us.

MADDOW: November 2009, U.S. Army Major Nidal Hasan opened fire at Fort Hood in
Texas. He killed 13 people and wounded 32 others. But then two years after that,
two years after that very high-profile attack, you might remember there was
another plot against Ft. Hood by another U.S. soldier.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

WILLIAMS: Law enforcement officials say an army private who wanted out of the
service because he`s a Muslim plotted this attack, saying he wanted to, quote,
"get even with the military for the fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan."

Investigators say his targets were fellow soldiers at the army sprawling Ft.
Hood. Texas police revealed today that they arrested Private First Class Nasser
Jason Abdo yesterday at a motel near Fort Hood. In his room, ATF agents found
enough explosives to make at least two time bombs. The police chief called Abdo
very dangerous.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MADDOW: So, in that case, this was the summer of 2011, the would-be attacker of
Fort Hood planned on setting off bombs at restaurants near that Army base that
were popular with soldiers. He aroused suspicion by paying cash for a large
amount of gunpowder and ammunition at a local gun store. The gun store owner
called police. Police ended up tailing the guy to a hotel room where he was
staying, and that was fortuitous.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

WILLIAMS: Officers tracked the young soldier to this nearby hotel. In his room,
all of that ammo, a pistol, the components to make two bombs, and a backpack
with jihadi literature, including an article from the al Qaeda online magazine
"Inspire". Its title, "how to make a bomb in your kitchen."

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MADDOW: The attack in that case was foiled by police. That was July of 2011.
Then, just a few months later, a story with a similar theme, although this time
the target was New York City.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

REPORTER: Police say if Pimentel had been able to build and place the bombs this
tape of an NYPD test shows damage he could have caused.

At a Sunday night news conference New York City officials showed a mockup of the
devices. Some ingredients bought at local stores with the help of an NYPD
informant. And police say Pimentel was following bomb-making instructions
straight out of al Qaeda`s "Inspire" magazine.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MADDOW: Again, instructions straight out of al Qaeda`s magazine. The criminal
complaint in that case, November 2011, laid out step by step just how closely
that would-be bomber in New York City followed the instructions in the al Qaeda
magazine.

That New York City bus in 2011 was not a guy plotting a shooting spree. It was a
guy plotting to use pipe bombs to wreak havoc in the city.

Then two years later, in April 2013 it was the Boston marathon bombing. And that
attack was mostly remembered for the pressure cooker bombs that were planted
during the finish line of that marathon. Those two bombs did explode. They
killed three people. They injured close to 300 people.

But the Boston marathon attack also involved more bombs, homemade pipe bombs.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

REPORTER: Jurors saw firsthand the type of explosives that were used. State
police bomb technician Robert McCarthy told the jury, robots were used to use
three devices found in Watertown that did not detonate. They included an
elbow-shaped pipe bomb filled with powder and BBs. He told the jury, "I always
call it an improvised grenade. The elbow shape means when it`s tossed it won`t
roll away."

The prosecutor walked the now inert device over to the jury for a closer look.
They also saw a straight pipe bomb and a Tupperware device found behind the
driver`s wheel in the stolen Mercedes SUV. It was filled with two to three
pounds of power, topped by Green Hobby fuse wire.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MADDOW: Turns out the Boston bombers, they, too, were following specific
instructions on how to build those bombs. Investigators recovered files from the
Tsarnaev brothers that included the same al Qaeda magazine article that detailed
step by step instructions with pictures about how to make a pipe bomb at home.

Look at this, the image on the left is a picture from the al Qaeda magazine from
their instruction sheet. The image on the right is the pipe bomb that actually
was built by the Tsarnaev brothers and recovered at the scene of their
confiscated in the confrontation with the police in Watertown. They followed
those al Qaeda magazine how-to instructions pretty well, or at least that`s what
it looks like.

And the truth is we do not know whether this latest incident in San Bernardino
with this couple had anything to do with al Qaeda`s magazine. That`s something
we don`t know at all, but we can tie that magazine and its step by step
pictorial instructions to a bunch of different U.S. terrorist attacks and
attempted terrorist attacks.

And in this case, we know that this couple had more than just an armory worth of
ammunition and at least four guns. We know that they had more than a dozen pipe
bombs, 12 at a home in Redlands that`s tied to the couple who committed the
shoot, and one device they parentally left at the center where the shooting
happened, even though it didn`t detonate.

Police say that one, as Pete Williams described earlier, it was essentially
three pipe bombs strapped together with some detonator or some other sort of
device that appears to have come out of a remote control car. At this point, we
do not yet know exactly how these bombs were constructed, what sort of
explosives were used, whether they were even fully functioning.

"Inspire" magazine is not the only place where you can learn to make a pipe
bomb. You can find manuals all over the internet on how to make bombs like these
and other bombs as well.

But will the specific construction of these devices that they`ve got now, 13 of
them at least, will that tell us anything about whether these folks were
trained, whether they had help? Or even where they got their instructions on how
to do this.

The existence of the bombs tells us this isn`t just another mass shooting. What
are the forensics on the bombs themselves going to tell us about the shooters
and where they came from and why this happened?

Joining us now is a Scriven King. He`s an explosive ordnance expert. He served
in the Air Force. He`s now a national security professional with the terror
asymmetric project on strategy, tactics and radical ideology better known as
Tapestry.

Mr. King, thanks for being here.

SCRIVEN KING, EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE EXPERT: Thank you for having me.

MADDOW: Is it fair to think about bombs as having forensic signature that allow
you to trace them, at least if not to the bomb-maker then to the person who gave
instructions?

KING: Sure. It allows you an opportunity to look at certain things -- the
construction can give you a clue as to the sophistication, if you`ve seen this
sort of device someplace else, how common it is to see this. For instance, pipe
bombs are extremely common throughout a number of operations, not just limited
20 terrorists. They`re also known for other mass shootings.

MADDOW: So combining explosives, homemade explosives with gun fire is not that
uncommon in terms of mass shooting?

KING: It is not that uncommon. As recently as 2014, there was a shooting in Las
Vegas -- or excuse me, there was a shooting fairly recently where they also used
pipe bombs.

There was also another use of pipe bombs in Columbine. We saw a number of
rudimentary devices there. We`ve seen them with the Boston bombings as we saw
previously. The reason they use them primarily is to draw in first responders.

MADDOW: As essentially a secondary attack. So, they want to be able to kill
first responders after they`ve already committed the initial assault that`s
brought the first responders to the scene?

KING: That is correct.

MADDOW: You said pipe bombs are common. How dangerous is it to make them? I
mean, I`m struck by the fact that they apparently made 12. I don`t know if they
made 12 well. But they made 12 well enough not to kill themselves while making
them.

KING: The components that are used to make these rudimentary devices are often
very volatile. So often times there are more dead bomb makers than victims at
times. It`s not uncommon in certain locations to find a bomb- maker without any
fingers or missing limps. The components are extremely volatile.

We look at a compound as at TATP, which was an explosive used in Paris, or look
at gunpowder. I mean, if it`s not stacked correctly in the casing, if you got a
static charge for instance off your hands, they can be a source of ignition for
the explosive. So, it`s not uncommon.

MADDOW: The kind of instruction that is given in the al Qaeda magazine, and
again, we have no idea if that`s the kind of construction that was found with
these pipe bombs in San Bernardino, is that a generic enough type of
instruction, a generic enough template that it won`t tell us anything about the
sort of ideological inspiration for this attack if there was one?

KING: Yes. Bomb making is a very simple -- can be a very simple process. If
you`re talking about rudimentary devices, having a pipe bomb is not necessarily
indicative of belonging to a certain group, like it won`t tell me if you`re a
member of al Qaeda, and it won`t tell me if you`re a member of ISIS. There will
be other components that will help me in that process. Certainly, the bomb
certainly kind of will also help me along as well.

MADDOW: Forensically, among lots of other leads at this point, but at this point
we`ve got so many more questions than we do answers.

Scriven King, national security professional with Tapestry, thanks very much for
being here. Appreciate it.

KING: Thank you for having me.

MADDOW: We`ve got much more ahead. Stay with us.

MADDOW: So, if the San Bernardino attack had not happened, or frankly if it had
just been better explained by now, if we had fewer unanswered really important
big questions about it, if either of those things were true, the ore major news
story that the country would be riveted by right now is the historic decision
made by the Pentagon, the decision that all combat jobs in the United States
military will now be open to women.

The Armed Forces have been studying that prospect for three years now. It became
a very high-profile prospect when women graduated from Army Ranger School for
the first time in history earlier this year. A lot of people said that could
physically never happen. It happened.

But even with that, nobody had been sure if all combat jobs would be open to
women or just some. Now, we know as of today, it`s all of them. The chiefs of
the Army, the Navy, the Air Force and the Special Operations Command had all
agreed already that all of their combat jobs could be open to women.

There was a hold-up, though. The Marine Corps did not agree. The commandant
requested exemptions to keep women out of some specific combat jobs.

We now know that Marines request for those exemptions has been denied. One
standard, all services, all jobs. All services will now open all jobs to all
service members depending on merit alone and not gender. That includes Special
Operations, that includes artillery, infantry, armor and all other frontline
combat positions.

The services have a very short time frame. They`ve got until January 1st, which
is the end of this month, right? January 1st to submit their plans of how they
are going to do this in terms of opening all jobs to women. They have to have
these changes implemented, the start of implementation has to be April 1st.

So this is going to happen fast now. This has been debated for years. This has
been debated now for decades. But as of today, it`s done, decision made and as
of April 1st, it is going to be implemented.

Now, next question -- the draft. All young American males have to register with
the selected service within 30 days of turning 18, that`s in case they bring
back the military draft.

Will all young American women have to start registering within 30 days of their
18th birthday now, too? That is an open question. Not yet decided but it will be
soon. Everybody, freak out.

That does it for us. Now it`s time for "THE LAST WORD WITH LAWRENCE O`DONNELL".

Good evening, Lawrence.

THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE
UPDATED.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120301cb.471

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SHOW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript

                       Copyright 2015 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                           Copyright 2015 MSNBC MSNBC


                               19 of 24 DOCUMENTS


                                     MSNBC

                           December 3, 2015 Thursday

            SHOW: THE LAST WORD WITH LAWRENCE O`DONNELL 10:00 PM EST

The Last Word for December 3, 2015

BYLINE: Lawrence O`Donnell, Eugene Robinson, Chris Jansing, Pete Williams

GUESTS: Nizaam Ali, Malcolm Nance, Nicholas Kristof, Jack Rice, Cristian German,
Nizam Ali

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 7064  words



HIGHLIGHT: CA Gunman Appears To Have Been Radicalized; A Profile In Courage In
Washington; Gun Control Amendments Fail In Senate; The Only Republican Senator
Who Voted To Prevent People Whose Names Are On The American Government`s Terror
Watch List From Purchasing Guns And Explosives; The Suspects In The CA Shooting
Tried To Modify At Least One Of Their Rifles To Operate In Full Automatic Mode;
Good News Even During Our Darkest Times; Patrick Baccari`s Story of Survival,
Who One Of The Lucky Survivors Of The Massacre At The Inland Regional Center


LAWRENCE O`DONNELL, HOST, THE LAST WORD: Good evening Rachel, thank you.

MADDOW: Thanks.

O`DONNELL: Well, for 24 hours, they were just a number, 14. Fourteen dead in San
Bernardino.

When we heard that number yesterday in American newsrooms, we all knew that we
would be talking about nothing else in our coverage.

Because coverage of these events, multiple murders in America are simply
determined by body count, 14. Fourteen stopped us all yesterday.

But if it had been two, if it had been three, we would not be paying this much
attention to it. Fourteen, that`s what this story is about.

This story is about those 14 and now we have their names. Thirty seven- year-old
Michael Wetzel, a father of six who coached youth soccer.

Forty two-year-old Daniel Kaufman who trained development with disabled
employees at the Inland Regional Center`s coffee shop.

Fifty two-year-old Nicholas Thalasinos, a loving husband, 27-year-old Sierra
Clayburn whose sister says she was a loving, protecting person and loved helping
people as a health inspector.

Fifty eight-year-old Damian Meins, a health worker who also played Santa for
children. Forty six-year-old Bennetta Betbadal, she fled Iran at age 18 to
escape Islamic extremism.

Forty-year-old Robert Adams leaves behind a wife and a 20-month-old daughter.
Sixty year-old Isaac Amanios remembered as a great human being by his cousin,
NFL player Ned Barry.

Thirty one-year-old Tin Nguyen, she was engaged to be married. Aurora Godoy, was
26. Harry Bowman was 46. Yvette Velasco was 27 years old.

Juan Espinoza was 50 years old. Shannon Johnson was 45 years on the last day of
her life. We continue to learn more about the attackers, the "Associated Press"
reports tonight that the two shooters met formally for the first time in Saudi
Arabia in 2013 during the annual Islamic pilgrimage.

The woman Tashfeen Malik came to the United States on a Pakistani passport on
July 2014 and became a conditional resident after she married Syed Farooq who
was born a United States citizen in Chicago.

They had a 6-month-old daughter who they dropped off with their paternal
grandmother on their way to commit mass murder.

We also learned today that Syed Farooq communicated online with people who were
being monitored by the FBI in connection with a terrorism investigation.

But the shooters did not have criminal records and neither was on the FBI`s
radar in any real way. Authorities are still investigating the attackers motive.

Police recovered a massive pile of ammunition, bombs, material that could be
used to make bombs.

In addition to the 65 to 75 rounds the attackers fired, authorities found a
remote controlled-pipe bomb and four high capacity assault rifle magazines at
the scene.

The attackers had 1,600 additional rounds of ammunition inside the SUV where
they were killed in that shootout yesterday.

And at the house in Redlands that the police searched, they found 12 pipe
bomb-type devices and more than 4,500 rounds of ammunition.

Joining us now from San Bernardino is Chris Jansing. Chris, we had an update
tonight, another press conference update tonight. What were the -- what were the
most important additional items we learned tonight?

CHRIS JANSING, NBC NEWS: We got to feel, Lawrence, for what it must have been
like, the horror to be in that room. Seventy five to 80 people of 91 people who
were invited to be there that day.

And this couple walked in and he knew them. We learned tonight that 12 of the 14
people who were killed were his co-workers, were folks who actually worked in
the center that is behind me.

So, this was something that was very personal as well as very deliberate. And we
saw pictures for the first time, pictures of the weapons that were used to kill
and injure these people, to terrorize them.

You see the two large assault weapons that are there. Now, assault weapons are
banned in California, but these AR-15s can be modified in such a way that they
are legal.

And all four of these were legally obtained. They cost $550 to a $1,000, and go
online Lawrence, you can see an advertisement for these AR-15s, they call them
easy to use.

You don`t need any special kind of training. We saw new photos of the cars, one
of the -- from the officer that had bullet holes in it.

But the bullet hole-ridden car of this couple, one person described it as
looking as if a bomb went off.

Four hundred and fifty six rounds of ammunition police say were exchanged
between police and those two gunmen. And then we also -- and there you see the
higher image of what happened there.

But what we heard that was incredibly moving was a first-person account from
Lieutenant Mike Maddon(ph). He was one of the first responders on the scene.

And he was someone who said that he had prepared for this after (INAUDIBLE),
they had training for it, they thought they knew what it would be like.

But nothing prepares you for this kind of situation. Here`s part of what he said
tonight.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The situation was surreal, it was something that I don`t
think again, we prepared for and they tried to -- an active shooter, we talk
about sensory overload, they just try to throw everything at you to prepare you
for dealing with that.

What you`re seeing, what you`re hearing, what you`re smelling, and it was all of
that and more. It was unspeakable, the carnage that we are seeing, the number of
people who were injured and unfortunately already dead.

And the pure panic on the face of those individuals that were still in need and
needing to be safe.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

JANSING: He talked about trying to bring calm to the chaos and you could imagine
what a chaotic scene it was.

He described very vividly about people screaming in pain, about trying to get
some people out of there, but they were so afraid they didn`t want to leave.

So you really see very personally how this has impacted this community, these
very brave first responders, we`ve heard from some of the people who were
essentially first responders at the hospital.

And all of this playing out as the investigation obviously, Lawrence, is really
in its very early stages with hundreds of investigators looking at three main
scenes.

O`DONNELL: And Chris, when you talk about their training for this, the one thing
that they can`t include in that training is any experience of seeing 14 dead
bodies.

There`s nothing like that that you can put into training.

JANSING: And the -- he described, you know, you can still smell obviously the
gunpowder in the air, you can smell the smell of shots.

And he said right away when they got there, he realized that it was what they
thought it might be. And it was clear that there were a lot of people there who
were deceased.

And you know, over the years, I`ve heard a lot of people in this situation
trying to describe what it`s like. And of course, it is absolutely
indescribable.

It`s worth repeating as obviously, as obvious as it may seem. This is their
community, these are their friends, these are their neighbors.

These are the people that they go to church with. As you describe, a father of
four, somebody who ran the local coffee shop who probably knew a lot of these
folks.

So, they`re going into this situation where the decisions that they have to make
and the training that they have to allow to kick in really is in an active
shooter situation, a matter of life and death.

And he also -- what I thought was really interesting, he sort of alluded to the
fact that there`s been some sort of bad things done about police and the way
they respond to situations.

There was a little allusion to that. And you realize that in the grand scheme of
things when you have a situation like this, how lucky people are to have someone
who is willing to go in there and do what he was able to do that night.

O`DONNELL: Really heroic police work in this case, no question about it. Chris
Jansing in San Bernardino, thank you very much for joining us tonight, really
appreciate it.

We`re joined now --

JANSING: Thank you --

O`DONNELL: By Nbc News Justice correspondent Pete Williams. Pete, what do we
know about the timetable on the acquisition of these weapons?

PETER WILLIAMS, NBC NEWS: Well, the -- we`re told that the assault weapons; the
larger, long guns that you saw in that picture were bought three or four years
ago, but not by Syed Farooq or his wife, the two big ones.

The two smaller ones, the hand guns were purchased by Syed Farooq we`re told. So
there`s a question here of how did they end up with these two assault rifles?

Somebody legally purchased them, but it wasn`t Farooq or his wife. So, was that
a -- what is called a straw purchase where you pay somebody to buy the guns for
you or was it a simple matter of somebody buying them and then giving to them or
what was the deal there?

They`re trying to figure that out. There`s -- remember, this was three or four
years ago. Farooq has said he liked to do target practice.

So there may be a more or less innocent explanation for this, but they do want
to try to nail that down. There`s nothing that we know in his record that would
have disqualified him from buying the gun.

But perhaps it was a matter of he thought he couldn`t get it with a name like
the one he had or they would raise questions. That`s something they`re trying to
nail down.

O`DONNELL: Nbc`s Pete Williams, thank you very much for joining us tonight Pete,
really appreciate it --

WILLIAMS: OK --

O`DONNELL: We`re joined now by Jack Rice, a former CIA special agent and
terrorism expert. And Jack, we`ve learned an awful lot more since we last talked
here last night.

Given all we know now, what do you think of the most important things we`ve been
learning today?

JACK RICE, FORMER SPECIAL AGENT, CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY: Well, I think
what`s most important is that the FBI has really stepped up their involvement
here.

They`re really looking at not just social media sites, they`re also taking a
look at the computers themselves.

I mean, as Pete just put this, this is about trying to determine where the
AR-15s came from, to see if there`s a connection there. But there`s also a need
to find a connection.

Everybody wants to understand the motivation. Everybody wants to understand
this, and I think that`s what the FBI is driving forward with.

There`s a reason they took all of those computers to Washington. They want
answers now so they can follow up as quickly as possible.

O`DONNELL: Let`s listen to what the sheriff said today about, were they
targeting individuals, specific people during the shooting? Let`s listen to what
he said about that.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They sprayed the room with bullets. So, I don`t know if there
was any one person that they openly targeted. They killed 14 people.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What was the --

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: Jack, what does that tell us? Here`s someone going into his own work
place to do this. But witnesses don`t get the feeling that he was targeting any
specific individuals.

RICE: Yes, I agree. I mean, that`s what it sounds like to me as well. And I
think we also have to realize this wasn`t a spur of the moment thing.

The idea to come in and bring in bombs. The idea to come in with this amount of
weaponry. The idea of preparing with 1,600 rounds.

This is not something that`s done in five seconds. This was a planned effort.
This was a planned attack. And so I think it`s important to realize there is
something more behind this than one disaffected man who was angry at one
particular person.

This was about something much bigger than that. That`s what people are trying to
find answers.

O`DONNELL: So, Jack, just to underline the point. If the emphasis here was on
the investigation of a workplace grievance of some kind, that`s where you might
expect something more like an individual targeting going on here.

RICE: Absolutely. I mean, what makes this unusual is that you`re not targeting a
particular individual, but typically where that has happened in the past if one
person doing it.

The idea that somebody would actually bring their wife along to be the co-
conspirator here sort of changes the entire dynamic anyway.

And then to come and take out as you put this rightfully so, 14 people, injuring
more than almost two dozen more. This was not about taking out one person
because you`re angry.

This is about something fundamentally different than that.

O`DONNELL: Jack Rice, thank you very much for joining us tonight. Coming up, a
man who attends the same Mosque that Syed Farooq belong to will join us to talk
about the man he knew.

And one Republican senator actually dared to show courage in Washington today.
And this is what it`s come to in Washington.

This is what courage was today; voting to prevent terrorist from being able to
buy firearms in America. Only one Republican senator was willing to vote for
that.

That`s coming up.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CARLOS ORTIZ, FATHER OF KEVIN ORTIZ: The door and started shooting, he got hit,
right at that time and they ducked, he ducked under the table, and then he tried
to hide himself and tried -- there was -- as he said that they came back and
were shooting some more and they actually shot us when they got shot in the
legs.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: That`s Carlos Ortiz talking about his son Kevin. More about Kevin
next.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: This is of course the most
wonderful time of the year, but we would be remiss not to take a moment to
remember our fellow Americans whose hearts are heavy tonight.

Who grieve for loved ones, especially in San Bernardino, California. Their loss
is our loss, too. For we`re all one American family. We look out for each other,
in good times and in bad.

And they should know that all of us care about them this holiday season. They`re
in our thoughts, they`re in our prayers, and we send them our love.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: Today, police announced the number of people wounded in San
Bernardino massacre increased to 21, the number yesterday was 17.

They`ve increased that now to 21. That number includes the two police officers
who were wounded during the shootout with the suspects in the SUV yesterday.

Kevin Ortiz was also wounded in the massacre, he was shot five times. Kevin
Ortiz called his wife who he married just two weeks ago to tell her that he was
hurt but he was going to be OK.

He then made the same phone call to his father. Kevin Ortiz is in the Arrowhead
Regional Medical Center, he`s in stable condition in the intensive care unit.

Joining us now, Pastor Cristian German, he`s a close friend of Kevin Ortiz and
his wife. He`s also the youth pastor of Fontana First Assembly of God where the
couple attends church.

Pastor German, you visited Kevin in the hospital, what can you tell us about how
he`s doing and your conversations with him there in the hospital?

CRISTIAN GERMAN, REVEREND MINISTER: Sure, yes, I visited him today. I`ve seen
him to be -- he was doing much better, he`s recovering from the wounds and he`s
doing much better now.

O`DONNELL: And what does he remember about the shooting?

GERMAN: Very little. From what he told me, he says that they were at the
company`s Christmas party when all of a sudden he heard pops in the hallway.

And after that, he said he saw somebody come inside the room where they were
celebrating and the person -- the suspect was wearing a mask and he just began
to shoot at everybody.

O`DONNELL: And what does he say about Syed Farooq, he worked with him, he knew
him, how -- what was his reaction to discovering who was doing the shooting?

GERMAN: He doesn`t know --

O`DONNELL: He still --

GERMAN: He doesn`t know --

O`DONNELL: Go ahead --

GERMAN: He still doesn`t know.

O`DONNELL: So, no one has discussed with him what we know about the facts of
this case, that`s not something that people are discussing with him at the
hospital?

GERMAN: Right, they haven`t discussed that with him.

O`DONNELL: And is he asking about that? Is he asking questions about what we
know about what happened?

GERMAN: No, not at all, he`s just very concerned about his fellow co- workers
who he had seen them injured yesterday on the scene.

O`DONNELL: What was his wife`s reaction to getting that phone call from him when
he`s been shot five times?

My understanding is, he made the phone call once a police officer was close to
him, so that he could assure her that although he`s been hurt, he`s with a
police officer and he`s going to be safe.

What did she say about what it was like to receive that phone call?

GERMAN: Well, in fact, she didn`t -- she thought it was just a prank call at
first because he had called from a different phone.

So, she thought it was just a prank call until he was very serious and she
recognized his voice and he had told her that he had been shot.

But that he wanted -- he wanted to let her know that he loved her and that he
was going to be OK. And then that`s when the line cut off. And right after that,
she called me, shocked, crying, very emotional.

O`DONNELL: And was -- did he make the call to his father with the same phone or
with a different phone?

GERMAN: Yes, with the same phone.

O`DONNELL: And what did his father tell you about receiving that call?

GERMAN: I`m sorry, I couldn`t hear that last word.

O`DONNELL: What did his father tell you about receiving that call? Did he
realize how serious this was right away?

GERMAN: Oh, yes, of course, he was really scared.

O`DONNELL: Cristian German, thank you very much for joining us tonight. I really
appreciate you taking the time and please give our best wishes to Kevin, we wish
him a speedy recovery.

Very sorry for what he`s been through.

GERMAN: Thank you.

O`DONNELL: Thank you. Up next, a man who attended the same Mosque as Syed Farooq
will join us.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DAVID BOWDICH, ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION, LOS ANGELES:
We do not yet know the motive, we cannot rule anything out at this point.

Again, it would be irresponsible of me and it would be way too early for us to
speculate on motive of why this occurred.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: Nbc News is reporting tonight that according to authorities, Syed
Farooq had been in touch with persons of interest in the Los Angeles area who
have expressed Jihadist-oriented view.

Intelligence sources say that Syed Farooq was also in communication with
individuals overseas who are also persons of interest to U.S. authorities.

Joining us now, Malcolm Nance; a former Counterterrorism Intelligence officer,
combat veteran and the author of "Defeating ISIS: Who They Are, How They Fight,
What They Believe."

Also joining us from the vigil at San Manuel Stadium in San Bernardino is Nizam
Ali who knew Syed Farooq, they attended the same Mosque in San Bernardino.

Mr. Ali, thank you very much for joining us tonight. And first of all, I want
you to talk to us about where you are at that vigil tonight. How have you been
received there by people at the vigil?

NIZAM ALI, ATTENDED SAME MOSQUE AS SYED FAROOQ: Honestly, I mean, I just came
here about 15-20 minutes ago and everything is fine, I mean I`m not getting --
you know, everything goes through, I`m being welcome, you know.

O`DONNELL: And are you aware --

ALI: Yes, a good response --

O`DONNELL: Of any organized attempt to have Muslims in your community attend
this vigil tonight or are people just coming --

ALI: Yes --

O`DONNELL: On their own initiative?

ALI: No, there was actually from the Redlands community. Actually, right now,
they`re having one of the speakers from the Mosque in Redlands, you know,
speaking on behalf of the Redlands community, Muslim community, that is.

O`DONNELL: And we just heard the applause there for that. This is a --

ALI: Right --

O`DONNELL: A great -- it seems like a great coming together there tonight.
Please tell us what --

ALI: Right --

O`DONNELL: You can about Syed Farooq, how long you have known him and any
changes you might have observed in him over time.

ALI: First of all, I wanted to, you know, express my condolences on behalf of
the community in San Bernardino. You know, I take this personally since I was
born and raised here in San Bernardino.

This is my residence, this is where I was born, this is where I was raised. So
first, you know, my condolences to the families and to those that are injured on
behalf of the Muslim community at large.

As you were asking -- so I had met him in the Mosque. He used to come on lunch
break to the Mosque, and I noticed, you know, we`re a very small, close-knit
community here in San Bernardino.

We have about five to ten attendees per prayer, we pray five times a day. So, in
any prayer, we have about five to ten people. So, everyone knows each other, you
know, pretty much.

So we noticed a new person is coming in, this was about two years ago. And I
noticed, you know, he`s coming frequently. So, I --you know, we try to be
welcoming to newcomers.

So, I approached him and I said, hey, how are you? Where are you from? I
noticed, you know, you`re coming more frequently.

So, he said, you know, I work in this area, I have lunch break so, you know, I`m
coming for that reason.

So from then, you know, I started to, you know, engage in some contact with him
and slowly -- I wouldn`t say I was a friend of his. We had acquaintances with
each other.

I would meet him frequently, however, he never expressed any type of, you know,
emotional breaks or anything like that. I know him as being a very respectful
individual.

He was shy in the beginning, he was not somebody that was violent, he was not
somebody that was emotional.

He was not somebody that I knew that was -- you know, he did not have any
negative characteristics. I mean he was always respectful. I mean he was a
really nice guy. And, to found this out yesterday, last night, to hear that this
is the individual that did that, I mean it is shocking. It is heartbreaking. It
is devastating.

There is no words I have, you know, to express and same thing with the members
of our community. We are devastated. We cannot believe that a person like this,
you know, would do such a thing.

So, at the time I met him, he was saying, you know, I am going to be getting
married soon and you know, I congratulated him on that and after that, he got
married and then he returned back with his wife.

O`DONNELL: Did he --

ALI: And, then I had --

O`DONNELL: Can I just ask you about his wife, Tashfeen Malik. Did he tell you
how he met her? How he came to be connected to her in the first place?

ALI: What I remember is that he had mentioned, he met her online on some Muslim
dating site or Muslim matrimony site or something along those lines, but I do
not know anything beyond that. I know that he said that she wore a niqab, which
is the face veil that is covered on the face.

So, other than that, I do not know anything about her. I believe he said that
she was from Pakistan. And, I remember he was saying that he was going to go to
Saudi Arabia to Mecca, you know, the holy trine in Islam to get married there.

So, I remember he was mentioning that I am going to go there and get married and
bring my wife back. And, then, eventually, he came back, I think he was gone for
a few weeks. And, then, I saw him again and, you know, I congratulated him.

And, he was saying, you know, I want to do some type of banquet here in my
community, here in San Bernardino -- here in Riverside. Riverside was his
community. That was his local mosque, which is about 15 miles-- minutes from San
Bernardino.

So, and, I said, "Hey, let us do it in our mosque in San Bernardino." And, he
said, "No, I suggest it would be better in my community. You know, it is my --
those are the people I grew up with and that I know." So, I said, "OK, fine."
So, I made some food and we took it over, and you know we had a little banquet.
And, that was it.

I would say, it would be a few hundred people attended, something like that.
Then, after that, I heard that he had mentioned his wife getting pregnant. And,
after that, you know, he had a baby about six, seven months back. And, after
that, I started school. I am studying in Cal State, San Bernardino, myself.

So, my timing -- you know, my schedule became a little bit different than his.
So, our interactions became less and less. I mean, like I said, I did not
interact with him except at the mosque. Occasionally, he came to my house, you
know, and things like that. But, I would not say that he was a friend of mine.
You know, I was not someone that was as close with him as others could have
been.

O`DONNELL: Malcolm Nance, I would like to get your reactions on what you just
heard from Mr. Ali about this experience of knowing this guy and being so
shocked, never seeing any hint of anything like this being possible.

MALCOLM NANCE, COUNTERTERRORISM EXPERT: First, I think it is absolutely
brilliant that the Muslim community of San Bernardino is coming together to show
unity of themselves and to show that what the true face of Islam is. But,
speaking of Syed, the first thing that I see here is that, we see that within
the people who are radicalizing, that they come in two different flavors.

For the most part, the ones that we all know about are the People who are, you
know, completely withdrawn, start talking all the Jihadic rhetoric, start making
calls for action. But, on the other hand, there is another type of jihadist, or
someone who could be radicalized into jihad. And, that is the person who goes on
self Hindra.

Hindra is the technical term that is used amongst Jihadist. It is actually a
religious term to emigrate, like Prophet Muhammad did from Mecca to Medina.
Well, amongst the groups like ISIS and al-Qaeda, they mentally emigrate to a
safe zone, where they live amongst themselves and essentially isolate themselves
from the other community.

And, in this case, it is quite possible that, that could have happened where the
entire Muslim community of San Bernardino and Redlands would have, absolutely,
no idea that mentally this person has essentially gone off the reservation and
has brought himself to a state of mind to where he believes other things and
that action should occur.

O`DONNELL: Mr. Ali, have you had any experience seeing anyone else develop in a
way that indicated you might be suspicious of some kind of radical tendencies?

ALI: Absolutely not. I mean like I said, he was a sweet guy. He was, you know, a
very friendly person, very charismatic person. I mean, he was not a mean person.
He would never argue, like I said, you know, he would never even -- I never
heard him raise his voice. I never seen him in emotional state.

You know, I never seen him flip out for any reason, you know, based upon
whatever circumstances, there may have been. He was always relaxed, always calm.
And, to so that this person was capable of doing such a thing is -- like I said,
there is no word -- I cannot find a word to describe it, devastating,
surprising, shocking. I mean I cannot express the words. I cannot express the
feeling.

O`DONNELL: And, let me just ask you more generally, Mr. Ali, about -- have you
seen other people -- you know, there is articles in newspapers in America every
day about American radicalization of Muslims and people out there could get the
feeling. And, I think there are some political candidates, who want people to
get the feeling that this is happening everywhere all the time in America.

And, that, you know, with your experience in being as religious as you are and
as frequent a visitor to your mosque, surely you would come across people
frequently, who were going through this kind of metamorphosis into more and more
radicalization.

And, I am just wondering what you would say to people, who think that this is
common in America and common in Muslim life in America. Just how much of this
have you witnessed?

ALI: Honestly, this is the first case that I have seen it, you know, firsthand
like this, knowing a person that close, seeing him two to three times a week.
But, like a said, the frequency was a lot, but the duration was five minutes,
two minutes. You know, how are you? What are you doing?

So, there is no -- I cannot answer you, you know, unfortunately, in the best
way. I mean, in my opinion is that -- I would say that, it is a duty upon all
the citizens, Muslims and non-Muslims alike that if we see such activity, if we
see people that are headed towards this path, that we should notify the
authorities to let them know this is the situation.

Had I known that this person was in this state of mind, and I had knowledge of
such a thing, I would have been the first person to report it to the proper
authorities to prevent such an atrocity from occurring.

O`DONNELL: And, just to clarify, I mean, what you are telling us is in all your
experience in Muslim life in America, you have never witnessed anyone like this
going down a road like this. And, it is not -- and I would take from that, the
inference that it is very uncommon for American Muslims to witness this kind of
aggression?

ALI: Absolutely. Absolutely. And, on top of that, I would like to add one more
thing. He was -- We were, you know, discussing this in the mosque amongst the
brothers that he was an example of the American dream, if you will.

O`DONNELL: Yes.

ALI: He had a good job. According to what we have learned yesterday, he was
making $77,000 he made last year, right?

O`DONNELL: Yes.

ALI: He was making good money. He had a family. He had a house. He was
successful in life. And, I remember six to nine months back, he had mentioned he
was going to start his masters degree. He was going to pursue his masters
degree.

So, this was an educated individual. He had a job with the county environmental
development - Environmental or health department, sorry with, you know -- so, he
was a professional individual. And, to see that transformation is just, you know
--

O`DONNELL: Yes.

ALI: Puzzling. I do not see the correlation.

O`DONNELL: Nizaam Ali --

ALI: So, definitely, something is not common.

O`DONNELL: Nizaam Ali, thank you very much for joining us tonight.

ALI: You are welcome.

O`DONNELL: And, thank you for your invaluable --

ALI: Thank you very much.

O`DONNELL: I want also thank you for your invaluable contribution to that vigil
tonight. Your presence there tonight is very important.

ALI: You are welcome. My hope --

O`DONNELL: And, we are glad to see you doing that. Go ahead.

ALI: My hope to the community, you know, is that we -- my hope was coming out
was, you know, that we do not get any backlashes from the community because of
ignorance, because of, you know, stereotypes. Because, you know, such an
incident happened here locally in our presence. And, this is something that is
unacceptable.

So, my hope is that, you know, we ask God to give us the patience as a nation to
go through this and give us the perseverance and allow us and enable us to go
through this phase in life and become better people and understand, you know.
And, we will move on in life. And, we hope we will become more united.

O`DONNELL: Again, thank you very much for joining us tonight and thank for being
there.

ALI: You are welcome. God bless you.

O`DONNELL: Malcom Nance, thank you also for joining us tonight. I appreciate it.

NANCE: You are welcome.

O`DONNELL: Coming up, a profile in courage in Washington today. It is just
shocking how low the bar is now on courage in Washington.

(MUSIC PLAYING)

O`DONNELL: Today`s "Profile in Courage" in Washington is Illinois Senator Mark
Kirk. He is the only republican senator who voted today to make it slightly more
difficult for terrorists to obtain the tools of terror in the United States.

Mark Kirk was the only republican senator who voted to prevent people whose
names are on the American government`s terror watch list from purchasing guns
and explosives. That, that is what passes for courage in 21st century American
politics. A republican voting to prevent people on the terror watch list from
being easily able to legally purchase guns and explosives in the united states.

Every republican senator voting today voted to continue to make it as easy as
possible for terrorists including people on the terror watch list to buy guns
legally and easily, to buy explosives legally and easily. They voted to make
sure that the United States of America remains the friendliest weapons supplier
of terrorists in the world.

And, of course, the terrorists won today in the United States senate as they do
every time any legislation about restricting access to firearms comes to a vote
in today`s senate. Forty-five senators voted for Dianne Feinstein`s amendment to
prevent people on the terror watch list from buying guns and explosives.

And, 54 United States senators, oath-taking United States senators, voted to
make sure that people on the terror watch list can buy as many guns as they want
and explosives and they did it. They voted for that, the day after the latest
explosion of gun terror in America left 14 dead on the floor of the Inland
Regional Center in San Bernardino, California.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. CHRIS MURPHY, (D) CONNECTICUT: Members of congress get paid to change
policy to make people safer. And, what is so offensive to those of us,
particularly, who lived through Sandy Hook and watched communities live through
similar episodes, is that it is not bad enough that we have not passed any
legislation to try to address these epidemic rates of gun violence. But, in this
congress, we are not even trying. We are not even making an attempt. That is
offensive.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: We will be right back.

O`DONNELL: MSNBC News is now reporting that the suspects in the shooting tried
to modify at least one of their rifles to operate in full automatic mode, which
just would have meant pulling the trigger once and having the thing constantly
spray gun fire.

We are joined by "The New York Times" Columnist, Nicholas Kristof and "The
Washington Post" Eugene Robinson. You both written about this today, and Nick,
it keeps coming back to the guns.

NICHOLAS KRISTOF,"THE NEW YORK TIMES" COLUMNIST: Absolutely. I mean the larger
point is not what happened in San Bernardino. It is not what happened in
Colorado, it is the fact that every 16 minutes in America, one life is lost to
guns. And, we have to address that. There are no silver bullets, so to speak.

Maybe that is the wrong metaphor, in fact there are steps we know that could
reduce the toll. And, if we could reduce the toll by 1/3, which experts think is
a reasonable estimate, that would be 11,000 lives saved each year. And, yet we
are not even trying.

O`DONNELL: And, Gene, you know, they will -- the opponents of the -- do- nothing
people --

EUGENE ROBINSON, "THE WASHINGTON POST" COLUMNIST: Yes.

O`DONNELL: -- will look at a particular shooting and say, "Oh, well, the thing
you just proposed would not have mattered." You know, they did a background
check on the mother of the kid, who killed all those people in Connecticut. And,
yet, they do not say that about seatbelts.

They do not say that when someone dies in a car with the airbags working and the
seatbelts working that, that is somehow the fault of the seatbelt or the airbag
or the government regulation.

ROBINSON: Exactly. They know full well that it would stop some incidents. It
would stop some escalation. It would stop some individual killings. It would
stop some suicide. You know, 2/3 about of the 33,000 or so lives that are lost
in this country every year to gun violence are suicides.

And, studies have shown that many of those suicides would not happen if a gun
had not been right there. Now, some people will kill themselves and find some
other way to kill themselves. But, many people will not.

It is the fact that the gun is there enables the suicide. It is -- Well, we
agree. So, you know, we cannot argue about this. But, I get tongue tied, because
it is difficult to understand why we accept this level of gun violence in this
country, a level that no other developed country accepts.

O`DONNELL: And, the republican, who would never understand what the Republican
Party did today in the United States Senate was Ronald Reagan.

KRISTOF: That is right.

O`DONNELL: You quoted him in your piece today.

KRISTOF: Yes. I mean he saw gun violence firsthand. He experienced it.

O`DONNELL: Uh-huh.

KRISTOF: And, so, he was an advocate. He wrote an op-ed in "The New York Times"
about the need for reasonable limitations on guns. And, yet that is something
that, even though the party reveres Reagan in other contexts will not adopt his
wisdom in this one.

I mean even when he was in California, he approved two-week waiting period to
buy handguns. And, you know, I think that the car analogy used earlier is
exactly right. People always say, "Well, you know, cars kill." Sooner, a number
of people, we do not ban cars, but we do regulate cars to make them safer.

(LAUGHING)

So, since the 1921, the auto fatality rate in the U.S. has been lowered by more
than 95 percent, and it is not one thing. It is a million things. It is seat
belts. It is air bags. It is graduated driver`s licenses. It is the guardrails.
It is the liability insurance.

And, in the same way, there is no single way we are going to reduce gun violence
immensely, but there are a number of steps, each of which will have an
incremental effect and yet we are not doing it.

O`DONNELL: And, gene, they oppose every conceivable advance including
technological advances. We saw the invention of that gun that will only work
with the correct fingerprint.

ROBINSON: With the correct fingerprint. Exactly.

O`DONNELL: Somehow, they are opposed to that.

ROBINSON: Oh, no. We cannot have that.

O`DONNELL: Yes.

ROBINSON: I do not know why. I mean you still get your gun, right?

O`DONNELL: Yes.

ROBINSON: You still get to shoot it. I do not quite understand it. Well, I do
understand it. It is fear of the NRA and fear of being opposed by the NRA and
angering base voters in the Republican Party.

O`DONNELL: The majority in favor of this is gigantic. Most of the things we are
talking about have over 75 percent majority supporting.

ROBINSON: Yes.

KRISTOF: Even gun owners.

O`DONNELL: Yes.

KRISTOF: And indeed -- you know, I do think that liberals have sometimes adopted
the wrong strategy here. I mean, I think that, that all the political capital
devoted to the assault gun ban was probably misplaced.

I mean the real issue here in terms of fatalities is handguns. And, the steps
that seemed to the greatest difference are things like safe storage requirements
to reduce child accidents or suicides.

ROBINSON: Yes.

KRISTOFF: It seems like reducing access to people, who have domestic violence
warrant against them, people who have problems with alcoholism and violence.
And, those steps are the things that would make the greatest impact on reducing
the toll.

ROBINSON: And, guess what, maybe people on the terror list.

O`DONNELL: Yes, maybe that.

ROBINSON: Maybe, we should single out terrorists as a class of people, who
should not be able to purchase or get guns.

O`DONNELL: It does not get crazier. Nick Kristof and Gene Robinson, thank you
both for joining me tonight on this report and I really appreciate it. We will
be right back.

O`DONNELL: There is always good news even during our darkest times. And, there
is some good news tonight. I will have a few words of good news next.

O`DONNELL: And, now a few words of good news. On "Giving Tuesday", you gave to
the K.I.N.D. Fund, very, very generously. "Kids In Need of Desk," as many of you
know is the program we created with UNICEF to provide desks for African schools,
desks that are built in Malawi and delivered to schools where the kids have
never seen desks.

The K.I.N.D. Fund also provides scholarships for girls to complete their high
school education in Malawi. And, on "Giving Tuesday", you gave $132,296 to the
K.I.N.D. Fund. And, that outpouring of generosity pushed the K.I.N.D. Fund
across a very impressive threshold. The $9 million thresholds.

Since we first announced the K.I.N.D. Fund on this program, you have now
contributed $9,131,755. You can donate desks and girls scholarships as gifts to
people on your Christmas lists.

They will receive an acknowledgment of your gift from UNICEF. You can contribute
at the LastWordDesks.MSNBC.com. There are simply no words to express how much we
appreciate your support. Thank you.

And, now tonight`s "Last Word." A story of survival. Patrick Baccari is one of
the lucky survivors of the massacre at the Inland Regional Center. He remembers
seeing Syed Farook at the Christmas Party he was attending with his co-workers.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

PATRICK BACCARI, CA MASS SHOOTING SURVIVOR: He sat at the very end of the table
that I was at. And, that is toward the back of the room. Somebody asked, "Where
is Syed?" Well, I did not realize he was not there at the moment. About the next
recess they gave us, I left to use the restroom.

In the restroom, I am getting ready to return, I hear explosions. The wall is
pummeling. I look back at the mirror, I see I am blooded on my face. As I go to
exit, not knowing what is going on, I could see the bullet holes hire on the
wall. So, I told everybody, we are being attacked. Get on the floor. And, we
just secured the restrooms, so nobody could enter.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE INTERVIEWER: How?

BACCARI: I laid on the floor and put my feet against the door, and I had the
other gentleman beside me do the same. And, I told the other one to get on the
ground. But, he preferred to stand on the toilet the whole time.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE INTERVIEWER: Did the gunman come into the restroom?

BACCARI: He was not going to be able to get in. I guess if he did, it would have
been over our dead bodies. When the S.W.A.T. Team finally came and we opened the
door and exited the restroom, I exited with everybody. Basically, tried to run
as fast as we could away from the building and follow whatever procedures they
wanted. I told them I was a medic and so other the guy, he was.

And, one of my good friends there, she was shot. And, so I tried to render her
aid with what minimal equipment we had. I could see her wounds were life
threatening, but you do not know. She got shot multiple time and we could see
the bullets lodged under the skin on her wrist and that was not were the entries
were.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE INTERVIEWER: (INAUDIBLE)

BACCARI: God helped us.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE INTERVIEWER: Where do you go from here? --

BACCARI: Just take each day as cherished as can be.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

O`DONNELL: For the last few years, Patrick Baccari went to work every day in the
same cubicle where Syed Farook worked. That is tonight`s "Last Word." Chris
Hayes is up next.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120301cb.474

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SHOW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript

                       Copyright 2015 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              Copyright 2015 MSNBC


                               20 of 24 DOCUMENTS


                                     MSNBC

                            December 4, 2015 Friday

                           SHOW: HARDBALL 5:00 PM EST

Female Shooter Pledged Allegiance to ISIS Leader

BYLINE: Chris Matthews, Pete Williams, Blake McCoy, Chris Jansing

GUESTS: Shawn Henry, Scriven King, Seamus Hughes, J.M. Berger, Megan Murphy,
April Ryan, Paul Singer, Megan Murphy, Carole King

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 8025  words



HIGHLIGHT: The young couple who carried out what the FBI now believes was a
likely terror attack in San Bernardino appear to have lived the lives of
ordinary Americans as they laid their plans and assembled pipe bombs in their
garage.


CHRIS MATTHEWS, HOST: Is this ISIS?

This is HARDBALL.

Good evening. I`m Chris Matthews in Washington.

The FBI is now investigating the San Bernardino massacre as an act of terrorism.
Based on what we`re hearing tonight, this could be the first successful
ISIS-inspired attack within the United States.

Chilling new details tonight about what may have motivated the attackers, Syed
Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik, to leave their 6- month-old daughter with
their grandmother -- her grandmother and commit this massacre. NBC News reports
that Tashfeen Malik, seen in this photo now, pledged allegiance to ISIS leader
Abu Bakr al Baghdadi on Facebook just hours before the attack, according to law
enforcement sources.

And a senior counterterrorism official tells NBC News that Farook was in contact
with ISIS sympathizers, who delivered words of encouragement to him.

Well, late today, attorneys for the Farook family held a press conference. The
described Malik, the wife, as isolated and conservative.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MOHAMMAD ABUERSHAID, Farook FAMILY ATTORNEY: She was primarily a housewife. She
had only come over here in 2014.

DAVID CHESLY, FAROOK FAMILY ATTORNEY: She was a very, very private person. She
was -- she -- she was -- she kept herself pretty well isolated. She was very
conservative.

ABUERSHAID: The men did not interact with her, and the brothers did not actually
ever see her face. They`ve never seen her face because she did wear a burqa. So
they just knew her...

QUESTION: Totally covered?

ABUERSHAID: Yes, she was totally covered. So they just knew her as Syed`s wife.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: Well, they also described Farook as introverted. They said he had no
friends that they could identify.

Well, the head of the FBI, James Comey, spoke to reporters today in Washington,
seeking to tamp down fears of a terror cell here in the U.S.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JAMES COMEY, FBI DIRECTOR: So far, we have no indication that these killers are
part of an organized larger group or formed part of a cell. There`s no
indication that they are part of a network.

Again, I quickly add, it is early. We`re still working very hard to understand.
But I wanted you to know that so far, we don`t see such indications.

We know that this is very unsettling for the people of the United States. What
we hope that you will do is not let fear become disabling, but to instead try to
channel it into an awareness of your surroundings, to get you to a place where
you are living your life, but if you see something that doesn`t make sense, you
say something to somebody.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: We`re also getting unprecedented access inside the attackers` home.
The landlord allowed the press to tour the location just hours after authorities
raided it for evidence. It was a surreal scene, actually.

Their baby`s crib remained adorned with toys. A teddy bear was still in its box.
Children`s books and games were strewn about the house. There was a computer,
shredded documents and Qurans.

And we`re getting a first look at the homemade pipe bombs the attackers rigged
to detonate at the scene of the massacre. And new reaction tonight from Farook`s
brother-in-law, who says that Farook -- well, he knew was not radical, the one
he knew.

But we begin tonight with the latest on the investigation. NBC`s chief justice
correspondent Pete Williams -- Pete.

PETE WILLIAMS, NBC CORRESPONDENT: Chris, the FBI is calling this a terrorism
investigation, certainly is a new chapter, but it doesn`t really functionally
change much. The FBI has already been all-out on this investigation from the
beginning.

The FBI director told us today that the agents investigating this case have
developed indications that, as he put it, the killers were becoming radicalized,
and that there`s indications of an influence by a foreign terror organization.

Now, he wouldn`t be specific about which terror organization. He didn`t say
anything about whether it was ISIS or any other. He did say he did not think the
couple from San Bernardino was part of any larger cell or network or group. And
he said they`ve not identified anybody else who was involved, including the
person who three or four years ago bought the assault rifles for Syed Farook.

He did say that it`s true that Farook had been in contact with some people in
Los Angeles who were in the past investigated by the FBI, but he said there`s
nothing about that contact at the time that it in any way elevated them or
suggested anything suspicious.

Now, there`s one other piece of information about this that became public today.
Agents disclosed, or I should say investigators disclosed that the wife,
Tashfeen Malik, posted on her Facebook timeline, just as the shootings were
beginnings, a statement of support for the ISIS leader, Abu Bakr al Baghdadi. It
was taken down by Facebook a short time later.

Comey was asked about that today, He declined to comment. The FBI in Los Angeles
said it was aware of it and investigating -- Chris.

MATTHEWS: Well, thank you. That was Pete Williams, of course.

I`m joined right now by NBC`s Blake McCoy, who is outside the attackers` home
itself. Thank you. Give -- what are you able to find out there? We were out
there watching it in the beginning today. What more have they discovered in the
house?

BLAKE MCCOY, NBC CORRESPONDENT: Well, Chris, we know the FBI wrapped up their
search of the house overnight, which is how reporters were allowed inside today.
The landlord came right up, took down that plywood and let people inside.

It was mostly personal items found inside, although we did see computer
monitors. The hard drives had been taken by the FBI, as you would expect. From
court documents today, though, we are learning that in the garage behind this
apartment there was what`s essentially a bomb-making factory. We knew they found
12 pipe bombs in that garage, as well as thousands of rounds of ammunition, but
we`re now learning through those court documents that there were also materials
to make more bombs.

It appears they were making the bombs on site, things like metal tubing, wires,
powder, so you know, a bomb-making factory here at this apartment.

We also learned today that near the site of the shooting, where those 14 people
were killed, authorities were able to recover two crushed cellphones. So they
have taken those away for analysis. They`re hoping to be able to get some
forensic evidence out of this. In their words, they think that the computers and
those crushed cellphones could have, quote, "golden nuggets" of information that
could shed more light on a motive and exactly who these people were
corresponding with before they went on this rampage -- Chris.

MATTHEWS: Blake, you`re there, I`m not, but try to put this together for me. We
watched pictures there today of what looked like a regular American home, the
baby -- the crib, the teddy bear, the toys, and so Westernized. They were
raising this -- hoping, it seems to me, to raise this kid as American as anybody
else, with all the American paraphernalia of a middle-class family, working
family. And yet -- and yet -- they`re terrorists.

MCCOY: Yes, and I spoke...

MATTHEWS: How does it look like when you look through the house? Did you see
that dichotomy between the attempt to assimilate as Americans and be like the
rest of us, and a clear-cut plan to blow us to hell? That`s what doesn`t -- I`m
trying to figure how you can see that (ph) I don`t see that coming together.

MCCOY: It doesn`t add up, Chris. And we spoke with the landlord and said, When
they signed this lease in May, did you notice anything different? He said, No.
It was a couple. They had a new kid. They seemed very nice. He actually had five
applications for this very apartment. He chose this couple. He wasn`t forced
into choosing this couple.

So you`re right. This was a -- this was a couple, by all accounts, living the
American dream. We know Farook made about $70,000 a year, so certainly wasn`t
marginalized, wasn`t hurting, had a good job with the county.

It`s baffling. And it is baffling to residents in this community. As one
neighbor told me, if it can happen here in Redlands, California, and San
Bernardino, California, it really can happen anywhere.

MATTHEWS: Thanks so much, NBC`s Blake McCoy.

For more on tonight`s big story, we`re joined by Shawn Henry, who was the
executive assistant director of the FBI, and Scriven King, who is a national
security analyst at Terror Asymmetrics Project. Gentlemen, thank you for joining
us.

Shawn, you first. What do you make of this? Because I think -- I don`t know. I
don`t get it. They seemed like they wanted to be an American couple. They had a
kid here. They didn`t have to have a kid. They had a kid, and they`re raising
the kid, like, you know, Joey Smith or Joey whatever. And I don`t understand.
But at the same time, they`re planning a plot against America itself. Your
thoughts.

SHAWN HENRY, FMR. FBI EXEC. ASST. DIRECTOR: Well, I listened to the lawyers on
the lead-in to the show here, Chris, and they`re talking about, you know, she`s
a regular housewife. Regular housewives I know don`t carry assault rifles and
kill people day-to-day. I`m concerned about...

MATTHEWS: You doubt the testimony of the relatives.

HENRY: Well, she`s not -- she`s certainly not a regular housewife. She was
involved in a terrorist act...

MATTHEWS: Right.

HENRY: ... this week. She killed 14 people or was involved in the killing, the
murder of Americans.

MATTHEWS: You think that kind of aggressiveness might be available to people
when they hang out with somebody. You`d see it.

HENRY: You know -- you know, you would think that that would be...

MATTHEWS: And they`re carrying an AR, whatever.

HENRY: ... you might see it.

(CROSSTALK)

HENRY: There certainly was some training, I would imagine, the way she was
engaged not only at the scene of the murder, but post, when she was engaged with
the law enforcement officers and she was engaged with them in a firefight.

My concern about this whole investigation is what are we looking at back in
Saudi Arabia, as well as Pakistan? Was she the one who came here and radicalized
him? That`s something I`d be concerned about and something I`m certain the FBI,
along with the intelligence services in both Saudi and Pakistan, are going to be
working with...

MATTHEWS: Do you think she could have agreed to marry him with a plan already
afoot to use him as a terrorist?

HENRY: It`s certainly a supposition, but I think it is an investigative angle
that law enforcement, the FBI, should be pursuing. If she actually -- he was on
a dating site, if perhaps she was actually looking for a way to get here to the
United States -- I think it`s something to pursue and to rule out.

MATTHEWS: OK. Shawn, another simple question. I go back to my normal American
question. When you have a young couple -- and in my family, I`ve got them -- who
raise kids, the whole life is around the kids -- the kids cry, you stay up all
night, you feed them, they burp, they throw up. You live with them. You change
their diapers. That`s what you do all day with young kids.

(INAUDIBLE) have a kid they seem to be raising as a classic American, with the
teddy bear, the whole routine. Why are they doing that at the same time they`re
fighting -- or waging jihad against our culture?

HENRY: Well, perhaps they`re looking to fit in and to assimilate into society,
to ensure that others see them as a classic American. It could be part of the
larger ruse.

MATTHEWS: Is it a Potemkin village? Is it a ruse. Shawn, your view? Scriven?

SCRIVEN KING, TERROR ASYMMETRICS PROJECT: Yes, sir.

MATTHEWS: Same -- the question to you. What is this, a Potemkin village, what we
saw today, this American scene in this house with a regular calendar on the wall
and a kid`s crib, all this paraphernalia of Americana and all this attempt to
try to become an American. I mean, the cultural statements are all over the
place. And then we find down in the garage an arsenal.

KING: Yes, it`s an interesting sort of dichotomy that`s going on here. I`d like
to address a few points.

MATTHEWS: Well, what about -- how do you put that dichotomy together? How do you
make -- have you ever seen a case like this, where terrorists are trying to
assimilate?

KING: Yes. Sure. I mean, we ask intelligence operatives to do the same when they
go overseas.

MATTHEWS: OK...

KING: You know, it`s all about establishing a cover.

MATTHEWS: I get you.

KING: And so I would imagine that it would be a matter of operational protocol
for a group like ISIS, or their sympathizers for that matter, to avoid detection
by assuming a regular, as you put it, American life.

MATTHEWS: (INAUDIBLE) You agree with that?

HENRY: I think that could be part of that whole ruse, trying to assimilate, look
like they belong, and then use that as an opportunity...

MATTHEWS: OK. Let`s go back to this right now. Scriven, you first then Shawn.
Same question to both of you. How much of this is passive and how much of it is
lone wolf, passive on behalf of perhaps ISIS. Somebody wants to join them,
they`re willing to take them. They want to blow up some Americans, go ahead. Do
it. You`re MacGyver-ish. You can put together a bomb, go ahead, do it.

How much of this is operational from overseas?

HENRY: I don`t know that we can determine whether it`s operational from overseas
or not. I think that ISIS has been very clear -- fight where you stand, do
whatever you can do to impact the West, to carry jihad, to support the
caliphate. And they are telling people, clearly, You don`t have to come to
Syria. You don`t have to come to Iraq. Fight where you are because you can carry
the fight to the West.

MATTHEWS: Shawn?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Scriven.

KING: This is -- this is -- this is part of their -- of their whole operational
strategy, and they`ve had this for quite some time, as Shawn had pointed out
earlier, where they -- they allow you to take it upon yourself to be an
independent franchise.

This is not going to necessarily a new thing with ISIS or groups affiliated with
them, or the groups that they formally belong to. We saw the same thing with al
Qaeda. It allows them an opportunity to use the lone wolves as an extension of
their ability to do what they need to do most, which is to kill at will.

MATTHEWS: Well, we just had the FBI director, Comey, say that he had no idea, no
reason to believe there was more to it than what we`ve seen. But of course, they
didn`t know there was this to begin with, Scriven. They didn`t know what we`re
watching here this week was going to happen now. So how do we know they don`t
know there`s more to it?

My question is, is your hunch here that this is part of a web or simply a single
thing in San Bernardino, California, out of no -- all over this country of 350
million people, this is the one thing we`re looking at. It`s all by itself. Or
is this part of a series of attacks we`re going to see?

KING: Sure. If I -- I`ll engage in a little supposition here. I firmly believe
that this could possibly be or that there`s some inclination of a -- of sort of
an ISIS sympathizer vibe here. I don`t think that this is indicative of any sort
of organized support.

There are certain links in the chain that are a bit missing that we would expect
to see. For instance, we would like to see a claim of responsibility by ISIS in
a more formal fashion stating that, These are our guys. These shooters belong to
us. Look at what we`ve done. And we haven`t had that.

There`s an also number of other things (sic), the lack of operational security
that they took post-attack. They left the house intact, which if you`re going to
plan an operation and you`re concerned about subsequent operations, you would
want to secure the place where (ph) which you were planning these attacks.

MATTHEWS: Yes.

KING: You also wouldn`t want to build bombs in the same location that you`re
going to be conducting operations...

MATTHEWS: Yes.

KING: ... in case you`re discovered. So this to me looks more -- according -- in
accordance with what the FBI has also said, indicative more of -- of ISIS
sympathizers.

MATTHEWS: Sympathizers only, not operation -- not operational. Anyway, thank
you, Shawn Henry and Scriven King. Thank you. Sorry about getting your names
mixed up. It`s Friday night here.

Coming up, we`ve got nor (sic) information -- actually, new information about
the presence of ISIS in this country and the tools the terror group uses to
recruit Americans, like we`ve been watching here. And that`s ahead.

Our coverage continues after this.

MATTHEWS: Well, late today, NBC`s Chris Jansing interviewed Syed Farook`s
sister. Here`s some of that interview.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CHRIS JANSING, NBC CORRESPONDENT: What have these last few days been like?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: A bad dream, a horrific nightmare. (INAUDIBLE) to go back
to my normal life.

JANSING: How did you find out that your brother was a part of this, that your
sister-in-law was a part of this?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I found out on the news.

JANSING: What goes through your mind?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Shock, disbelief, they have the wrong person.

JANSING: And now, just today, the FBI said this is a terrorism investigation,
which means your brother and his wife are considered terrorists. Can you wrap
your head around that?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No. Not at all. I mean, I had absolutely no idea that they
were involved in anything like that or that they were even capable of doing
something like this.

JANSING: Well, who were the people you knew?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I mean, my brother, brother that I grew up, the shy
introvert, you know, kept to himself, quiet, you know, kid that we knew that
grew up and got married. And his wife was recently here. She was only here for
two years. We didn`t really know her that well.

JANSING: Did you ever see anything about him or about her that would suggest to
you that they could be radicalized?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No. Never.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: Well, Chris Jansing will have her full interview with the sister
tonight at 10:00 Eastern on "THE LAST WORD."

Our coverage of the terror in San Bernardino will continue tonight right after
this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JAMES COMEY, FBI DIRECTOR: The investigation so far has developed indications of
radicalization by the killers and of potential inspiration by foreign terrorist
organizations.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEWS: Welcome back to HARDBALL.

That was FBI Director James Comey on the unfolding investigation in the San
Bernardino shooting today.

Well, the discovery that Syed Farook was in touch with ISIS sympathizers has
raised new concerns about ISIS influence here in the United States and the
threat of homegrown or homeland terrorism.

Just before Thanksgiving, ISIS released a propaganda video suggesting that Times
Square in New York was a target for the terror group. It was one of the many
public attempts to inspire and recruit potential sympathizers here in the
country.

However, much of their effort is less overt. A new study published on Tuesday of
this week by the Program on Extremism at George Washington University has
revealed that hundreds of Twitter users in this country are actively abetting
ISIS by spreading their message online.

They have identified about -- they have identified about 300 now as American
supporters of ISIS -- got it, 300 Americans working for the other side -- and
found that many have also threatened -- strengthened their interest in ISIS`
narrative through face-to-face relationships. People are getting together, not
just online, but in person.

According to the study, 56 individuals have been arrested in ISIS- related
charges this year alone, which represents the most terror arrests in a single
year since the 9/11 attacks themselves. And a total of 71 have been arrested
since early 2014.

I`m joined right now by Seamus Hughes, deputy director of the Program on
Extremism at George Washington University ,as well as J.M. Berger of the
Brookings Institution, author of "Jihad Joe: Americans Who Go to War in the Name
of Islam."

J.M., start off with this. What was your reaction? How does -- what we have seen
here -- if a woman in her 20s marries a guy, a sort of a mail order bride, they
meet over in the hajj over in Saudi Arabia, in Mecca, they get married, they
come back, they`re here for a while, and after a while, they get involved in
terrorism.

They start arming up. They get demolitions together. They got all kinds of
ordnance, explosives. They got semiautomatic rifles, semiautomatic pistols, and
thousands and thousands of rounds of ammo. And these are the facts. How do you
put it together?

J.M. BERGER, EDITOR, INTELWIRE.COM: Well, there is a lot that we don`t know
about this case yet.

We are really getting dribs and drabs of information. I think it is really
premature to try and figure out exactly what happened. I do think that there
does there seem to be some connection to ISIS, a nexus to ISIS here.

I think it is probably pretty unlikely that this was specifically directed by
is, but again every day we hear something new and we hear something that was
reported yesterday is wrong, so I don`t want to get too far ahead of the facts.

MATTHEWS: What do you make of the fact that the woman in this case, Tashfeen
Malik, there`s -- we finally got a picture of her today -- she is so quiet, she
is so humble, she`s just a quiet housewife, and yet she is -- she is putting out
Facebook postings in the very moment of the crisis when she is involved in
shooting all those people, 35 people, that she manages at that time to take the
time to put up a posting of herself and her devotion to the head of ISIS?

What do you make of that?

BERGER: Well, if that is the case, and that is what has been reported so far, it
makes sense.

If you`re going to carry out terrorism, often, you want to have that attributed
to the group that you`re supporting. That does not always happen. In the Boston
Marathon bombing, for instance, there wasn`t a specific group that they were
supporting. So, there was no claim.

But it`s more common that, at some point, you`re going to leave some kind of
bread crumbs that indicate why you are doing what you are doing.

MATTHEWS: Seamus, put it together as best you can. There are a lot of facts.
There are a lot of facts. A lot of rounds of ammo. A lot of pipe bombs. A lot of
evidence that these people were up to something for a good bit of time.

SEAMUS HUGHES, GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY: That is absolutely right.

So, the Program on Extremism, we looked at the ISIS American recruits here in
the States, and we looked at 7,000 pages of legal documents and found that 56
people were arrested this year alone. And we also had a team of researchers
looking online. And we found 300 Americans that were active online.

This case is similar to other cases in terms that there`s not a profile for
people that are involved in this. They run the gamut. They`re old. They`re
young. They`re rich. They`re poor. They`re integrated. They`re not. They`re high
school kids and they`re college educated.

It is very hard to paint a picture on this.

MATTHEWS: And when you say they`re integrated, you mean there are some who seem
to be of assimilated nature, they want to be Americans, they like our culture,
they want to join it, and at the same time they want to blow it up? I don`t get
that.

HUGHES: Yes.

MATTHEWS: You have actually seen cases of people who seem on the surface to be
trying to fit into our culture?

HUGHES: Absolutely.

And the vast majority of the cases of people in the legal system are U.S.
citizens, and they live relatively normal lives. They grow up here. They play
soccer here, and things like that. And then at some point in their life, they
decide to make a radical shift. And that shift can happen over the course of
weeks or months.

MATTHEWS: What about the case of a mole, where you have someone here,
potentially a mole, who comes over here as a mail order bride, meets through
social media, answers this guy`s quest for love, if you will, and somehow from
the time they marry over in Mecca, they come back here and they radicalize?

Does it make more sense that she came radicalized with a mission or that she was
radicalized while she was a quiet housewife in San Bernardino, California? What
is more logical?

HUGHES: Well, we have seen the role of the women in terrorism. It is not a
particularly novel thing. We have roles of women.

What is novel in this is that it was a woman that was a mass shooter. And it`s
possible that she was radicalized before and came over here, but it is also
entirely likely that she was radicalized here. We thought about it. When you
look at the ISIS cases, it becomes an echo chamber, where it`s reinforcing
beliefs, where what you think, your husband and your wife can reinforce your
beliefs. And then we see that online and in person.

MATTHEWS: Well, these -- of those arrested in ISIS-related charges here in the
U.S., the majority were American citizens; 40 percent were converts, if you
will, to Islam, I mean, religious converts, according to the study. And 55
percent of the arrests were carried out because of a tip from an informant or
through a law enforcement sting.

And, J.M., give us some sense about what -- if this case had never happened and
you were not thinking about this case in particular, because you have been
cautious here -- and I understand the professional need for that -- but what we
do know, outside of this case, as what has been going on in terms of
recruitment, possible mail order bride situations, whatever the technique is to
try to get people in this country to be radicalized?

BERGER: Well, there is two pieces of recruitment in the United States.

The first is online. And that is pretty systematic. It`s very heavily staffed.
There are ISIS supporters who stalk all kinds of different online communities
looking for people who might be vulnerable to their message, people who might be
expressing support or unhappiness in the United States, anywhere they can get a
wedge in.

At the same time, we have also seen that there are on-the-ground recruitment
networks that are operating here. And Seamus` report talks about that to some
extent.

In Minneapolis, certainly, we have seen that. We have seen several arrests of
people who were arrested on the basis of being ISIS recruiters, not just being
ISIS supporters. So, it is kind of a full-court press.

Social media gives them a lot of power that they did not have before that the
older jihadist recruitment networks didn`t have, because they can scour
thousands or hundreds of thousands or millions of people, looking for just a few
people who are unbalanced or unhappy or politically disenfranchised or whatever
their reason, and something that gives them an opening to get in there and start
worming their way into their heads.

MATTHEWS: Would it fit that pattern for someone who was a lonely heart, a guy
having a hard time meeting someone he wanted to meet, a woman, a young woman he
wanted to marry?

He said -- apparently, perhaps the standards that he was setting -- that Mr.
Farook was saying was, I just want someone that can be any culture of the world,
but as long as they are religious, and they wear a burka. It wasn`t much of a
demand, but it was pretty clearly leaning toward a very traditional woman.

BERGER: Well, the facts of this case, I think, are still unclear, but there are
certainly -- I have seen ISIS recruiters do follow matrimonial sites.

They follow sites that try and fix up Muslim marriages. And they are looking for
anybody that they can kind of work with. And we talk about this some, and there
has been some study of it, but I think it is still a kind of underdeveloped area
of study, but we do see that marriage is very important for people who are
recruited to go to ISIS.

People who go to ISIS territories, their success of recruiting women is partly
based on the promise of making some kind of love match when you get there. So,
there is an element of this that has an appeal to people. It is lonely people
are vulnerable I think is the simple way to put it.

MATTHEWS: I think that is fair enough.

Anyway, that seemed to have been the case with those English girls as well. They
are very active on the young, youth front, I should say, which has a lot to do
with wanting to find a partner in life.

Anyway, thank you, Seamus Hughes. And, thank you, J.M. Berger.

Up next, when we come back, Donald Trump opens a huge lead. Wait until you catch
these numbers. It may have something to do with what happened in Paris. I think
so. He up 20 points now in the latest polling, 20 points. He has opened up a
spread. With the threat of terrorism dominating the campaign, Trump is getting
stronger. Got it?

And this is HARDBALL, the place for politics.

MATTHEWS: Welcome back to HARDBALL.

With the country focused on the threat of terrorism, Donald Trump is showing
real strength in the polls. A new CNN/Opinion Research poll out today shows
Trump surging nine points since October all the way to 36 percent among
Republican registered voters. That is registered voters. And that is 20 points
ahead of his nearest rival, who is now Ted Cruz, who climbed to 12 points to
second place, and with 16 percent, actually -- right -- I think 12 -- he rose
12.

And Ben Carson is dropping, down eight points to third place with just 14
points. He`s way off the mark. Overall, 52 percent of Republicans -- this is
what I`m fascinated with -- now say Trump is the candidate with the best chance
of winning the general election next November. That is up 14 points since
August, when just 38 percent said that Trump had the best chance to beat the
Democrat, who we presume now is probably Hillary.

For more on Trump`s growing lead in the polls, let`s bring in the HARDBALL
roundtable. April Ryan, my friend, is White House correspondent, all over the
place today, for American Urban Radio Networks. Paul Singer is Washington
correspondent for "USA Today." Megan Murphy is Washington bureau chief for
Bloomberg News.

All three of you, take the time you need, up to a minute or two.

(LAUGHTER)

MATTHEWS: Why is -- what is the connection between Paris and everything else
that is going on? Is it the weakness of the other candidates, the inability of
Dr. Carson to talk about foreign policy? Is it Trump`s tough, bully boy, I`m the
toughest kid on the block?

Is it as simple as that, April?

APRIL RYAN, AMERICAN URBAN RADIO NETWORKS: It not simple.

Part of the problem is, is that we are in a time when there is a threat against
this country and other world countries. And we have to really have somebody
there who knows foreign policy, knows how to be diplomatic when diplomacy is
called for.

MATTHEWS: Is that what Trump has got?

RYAN: No.

MATTHEWS: Well, I`m asking you, why is he...

(CROSSTALK)

RYAN: I giving you Carson and I`m coming to Trump.

MATTHEWS: Are you fighting the polls here?

RYAN: I`m not fighting. I`m just telling you what I see.

MATTHEWS: OK. You are fighting the polls.

RYAN: Whatever.

(LAUGHTER)

RYAN: So, anyway, no, but also you need someone to be hawkish when it is time to
be hawkish.

But when it comes to Donald Trump, Donald Trump, according to a lot of people I
have talked to in Washington, outside of Washington, they feel he is a bully.
They feel that he has a lot of people who follow him that are -- have bigoted
ideas.

Now, when you put those two together, yes, there is a section of this country
that believes that he and this bullying attitude can push forth and do something
on foreign policy. But we are at a time that we need someone who understands...

MATTHEWS: So, you would not vote for Donald Trump?

RYAN: I am not going to tell you who I am going to vote for.

MATTHEWS: OK. No, I`m just teasing. I`m just teasing. It is Friday. But that was
a strong case.

Why do you Trump is going -- now, let`s put it in perspective. April is
certainly right. And 36 percent of Republicans registered voters, could be about
18 percent of the country, one in five. It could be. That is all.

PAUL SINGER, "USA TODAY": But I think that Trump benefits to some degree from
the Paris attacks, because -- my joke is that Donald Trump is not burdened by
self-doubt, and the American people at the moment are afraid. People are -- my
mother calls me. Have you seen what is on TV here?

People want to be assured that there is a strong man, a superman who can sort
of, don`t worry, I got it all.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: Remember Reagan in `80? I got to tell you, when we had our hostages
taken, none of them got killed, fortunately, because of the way Carter handled
it.

But that sense of weakness drove a lot of middle-of-the-road people to vote for
a guy on the right they normally wouldn`t have voted for.

SINGER: That`s right.

MATTHEWS: Megan?

MEGAN MURPHY, BLOOMBERG NEWS: I think that that is exactly it.

MATTHEWS: Reagan Democrats, they`re called.

MURPHY: This is it.

It`s the culmination of the four-decade-long trend of the white working class
into the Republican Party. And what you see with Trump is that this is when --
this might be the economic and ideological tipping point of this party away from
sort of -- this is an anti-free trade and anti-immigrant and anti...

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: Anti-war, really, too, ironically.

MURPHY: Into this -- into someone they think is telling them the straight talk
and is giving them a sense of connection back to an America they once knew, a
strong America, an America that provided for its families, an America where you
could seek a better opportunity, and a better life.

That message, which none of us, I think, no one sitting at this table, no one in
the media ever predicted to resonate, is resonating this cycle.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: You can say I have not predicted it, but I think what is going on here
is a failure of the political establishment.

And this rabble-rouser comes out and says, I can solve all the problems those
guys can`t solve. They can`t solve illegal immigration. They just keep talking
about it. They can`t solve the loss of industry in every major city in America.
I`m going to do something about it. And, by the way, we`re going to stop
fighting stupid wars.

Anyway, Trump is also by far and away the most trusted out of all the GOP
candidates to handle the big issues. Look at this; 55 percent say they trust
Trump to handle the economy. That`s over a majority; 48 percent say they trust
him the most to handle immigration, because they`re anti-illegal immigrant, of
course.

And 46 percent say they trust him to handle ISIS, and 30 percent say they trust
him to handle foreign policy.

He is apparently top all of those, April.

RYAN: I can understand the economy. He`s a billionaire.

MATTHEWS: He`s rich.

RYAN: He`s rich.

And he`s got celebrity. That`s what he made his life around, the money, and then
the celebrity came. But that is a whole different area than being in politics.
This is a whole different game.

MATTHEWS: Yes, but it is something. A lot of these jokers who run for office
have never done anything. What has Jeb Bush done?

(CROSSTALK)

RYAN: But fighting ISIS is different.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: Have you seen his book? It is all these phallic, high skyscrapers he
has built. And everybody says, God, he can put those buildings up. At least he
can do something.

SINGER: But Trump also comes across as being authentic in a sort of politician
sense the way other politicians don`t, right?

I mean, remember, the Republican accusation against Barack Obama is that he uses
a teleprompter. Donald Trump doesn`t use a teleprompter.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: I like that. I like that stuff.

RYAN: Obama has policy with the teleprompter. Obama has policy with a
teleprompter. What does Donald Trump have? He is bullying people from the
microphone from his podium.

(CROSSTALK)

MURPHY: It`s more than that.

He is tapping into -- people feel disrupted. They feel disconnected. They feel
like they don`t have anything to hang onto. He is giving them what they need to
feel like they are part of...

(CROSSTALK)

MURPHY: It doesn`t matter.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: Why does Hillary has to answer for her hair all the time, which, like
most people, you never know what is going to -- you have bad guys.

Trump always has a bad day. And we have just accepted that strange hairdo.

RYAN: I`m probably the least qualified to answer on hairstyle.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: Paul, you answer it.

SINGER: But you would vote for your crazy grandfather, who is a bit of a kook
and has odd hair.

(CROSSTALK)

MATTHEWS: We will be right back with tell me something I don`t know, which is
always my favorite part of the show.

We`re back to that, because we have had crisis. We`re going to get back to the
basic. Tell me something I don`t know. It`s the reason we watch this stuff.
Let`s go.

MATTHEWS: We`re back with the roundtable, April, Paul and Megan.

Let`s go, April, you`re first. Tell me something I don`t know?

APRIL RYAN, AMERICAN URBAN RADIO NETWORK: Next week, there is a big minister
ecumenical meeting with a presidential candidate and it is not Donald Trump.
It`s on the Democratic side. Bernie Sanders is going to Baltimore to meet with a
bunch of ministers in the midst of all that`s happening in the Freddie Gray
case. He`s going to meet with the ministers, Reverend Jamal Bryant, the man who
is very upset with Donald Trump meeting with these black ministers last week.
He`s holding this meeting, and not only will they have this meeting. They`re
going to take a walk in the Sandtown-Winchester area where Freddie Gray lived
and was murdered.

MATTHEWS: And that`s just Bernie Sanders, not everybody else.

RYAN: Just Bernie Sanders, yes.

PAUL SINGER, USA TODAY: Something you may not know that I`m thinking --

MATTHEWS: Because he`s trying to get some minority support.

RYAN: Definitely.

SINGER: I am betting $10 that we are not going to hit our December 11th deadline
for funding the government. We`re going to need an extension, possibly a couple
of days.

MATTHEWS: Shutdown.

SINGER: Shutdown threats will be everywhere by Thursday, but we`re not going to
shut down.

MATTHEWS: Because Ryan won`t do it?

SINGER: Because Ryan won`t do it.

MATTHEWS: Because Boehner gave him a great deal.

SINGER: But they`re going to have to they`re going to have three or four things.
They`re going to have to fight over, and the Democrats are going to have to
swallow something they don`t like.

MEGAN MURPHY, BLOOMBERG NEWS: Back to my favorite, Donald Trump is releasing the
medical records next week as he going to be combating the accusations that he
has not been transparent about the tax business and next week comes --

MATTHEWS: Who`s been asking for his medical records? Nobody.

MURPHY: Some reporters are asking about it.

MATTHEWS: What are the suspicious he`s got?

MURPHY: Bad hair. Bad hair day.

(CROSSTALK)

(LAUGHTER)

MATTHEWS: It is always a sneaky thing, and there is always something sneaky that
we want to find out about these guys.

RYAN: And his coloring is orange. And he is orange with bad hair, so you need to
find out the medical stuff, right? Why are you looking at me like that?

SINGER: Best health care that money can buy, right?

MATTHEWS: I`m just trying to figure out your motive by going after this.

Anyway, thank you for the round table tonight.

RYAN: Divisive.

MATTHEWS: Yes, he is.

April Ryan, Paul Singer, and Megan Murphy.

When we come back, we are going to end this week with a real star, the great
Carole King who is coming here. She`s in town this weekend to receive the
prestigious Kennedy Center Award. And this is HARDBALL, the place for politics.

MATTHEWS: Let`s get back to southern California now. NBC`s Gabe Gutierrez who is
with us. He has been talking to the Muslim community out there in Riverside --
Gabe.

GABE GUTIERREZ, NBC NEWS: Hey, there, Chris. Good evening.

We are hearing that one of the two mosques where Farook was he worshipped at
this mosque. He was a devout Muslim who very much kept to himself, and he even
offered to help the members of the community with the other problems that they
had. For example, helping one person whose car had broken down, and today,
members of the Muslim community here in afternoon prayers they got the together
and they wanted to emphasize that this, these actions in no way exemplify the
Muslim faith.

We spoke with one person who knew Farook. Here`s what he had to say.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I just found out. I am in shock. I found out a few minutes
ago. I am hurt. I`m hurt, because this is, like I said, I have been coming here
for 25 years, and almost never the community knows me, but they don`t have a
personal relationship with me like he did.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GUTIERREZ: Again, many people in the community just expressing disbelief and
expressing how they had no idea that Mr. Farook could have done this. They also
expressed disbelief in any suggestion that perhaps his wife may have played any
role in the radicalization. They say that his wife pretty much kept to herself
and many people in the community did not know him.

But again, members of the Muslim community wanted to stress that they condemn
this terrorist act, and some of them do fear a backlash both here and throughout
the country -- Chris.

MATTHEWS: Well, if they fear, that I have a right to do it, but the people
watching this show, of course, will understand that you don`t criminalize a
group of people, because one person has committed a terrible act or two people,
and one who came to this country joining a person here, and there`s, you know,
almost 2 billion Muslims in this world. We better not get into that.

Thanks so much, Gabe Gutierrez.

GUTIERREZ: Yes, that is exactly right. You bet.

MATTHEWS: Thanks so much for joining us with that point of view. We`ll be right
back.

(VIDEO CLIP PLAYS)

MATTHEWS: What a show.

We`re back.

It`s been a tough day and a tough week for the country. I`m pleased therefore to
end our show this Friday night with a real star, Carole King.

Besides being one of the great songwriters of modern times she hasn`t been shy
about sharing her political views. She`s an avid supporter of Hillary Clinton,
an outspoken advocate for wilderness preservation, and this weekend, Carole King
will be among the five performers honored by the John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts at their 38th annual celebration of the arts.

Carole, thank you so much. You`re now in league -- I went through the list that
won the Kennedy Center Awards. Frank Sinatra, Mary Martin, Bruce Springsteen,
it`s quite a list to be on now.

CAROLE KING, MUSICIAN: It`s absolutely -- I think Katharine Hepburn`s on that
list, too, which I did not know.

MATTHEWS: Yes.

KING: It`s amazing. It really is amazing. Sometimes, you know, it`s so big I
can`t take it in.

MATTHEWS: Well, something else is going on in your world besides being a great
songwriter. Everything`s in my head now from going over your songs. Even
"Locomotion" with little Evie. You wrote that.

Let me ask you about Hillary Clinton.

KING: OK. I am an avid supporter.

MATTHEWS: What is it?

KING: She is the most capable. She`s really smart. She does her homework. She
relates to what people actually need.

And there`s been all this demonizing of her for a reason, because she is so
capable, they have to find some way to get after her. But I just think she`s
great. And the fact that she`s a woman is certainly a plus, but it isn`t about
that she`s a woman. It`s about that she is the most capable person.

MATTHEWS: What do you make? We`ve had suffrage in this country since 1920.

KING: And can`t get an ERA.

MATTHEWS: Yes. Women have had the technical right to vote almost a century now,
going on exactly a century. Do you think -- I look at all the states. Not all
the states are equal in this department. States like California and New York are
very good for women. You`ve seen that. Even New England`s very good.
Massachusetts, and places like that, Pennsylvania and Ohio not so great. The
south not so great.

KING: Other than Idaho.

MATTHEWS: Not so great.

So it is an uneven situation in the Electoral College for Hillary to do. I
expect she will carry certain states and have a hard time in some others.

KING: Well, first of all, it depends on who`s running against her.

MATTHEWS: OK, let`s talk about Trump --

KING: And, by the way, she is not yet the nominee technically.

MATTHEWS: I know.

KING: So, we`re going to assume we have to get --

MATTHEWS: You can assume that. I think she will be.

But let me ask you about it. I think Bernie Sanders had his run, and I think
that run sort of wore out there. But let me ask you about her against Trump
because right now, Trump, most Republicans now believe he will be the nominee.
Extraordinary fact, but it`s true.

Her against him. How`s that look?

KING: I think she wins. But there is a key to that, and that is that I`m one of
the people who are absolutely horrified that a person that full of hate, that
spews that hate would be our leader. And I know there are a lot of other people,
I talk to them from both parties, independents who are equally horrified. But
the way we don`t have him be the president is if all of us who are horrified get
out and vote.

MATTHEWS: Yes, it could it be that people are so disgusted with the
establishment? I mean, there`s some reason why they`re going to this guy. He`s
never held office.

KING: Well, I would say look at who`s in charge now in terms of the Congress.

MATTHEWS: Nine percent approval of the U.S. Congress right now, Carole, 9
percent. That`s almost as low as Jeb Bush`s. Almost as low as Jeb Bush`s
numbers.

KING: Well, that`s another story. But no, you know, here`s an example. Yesterday
I was on the hill, and there`s this Zadroga Act, which is the 9/11 first
responders bill to get them health care, which I think Hillary worked on when
she was a senator. Carolyn Maloney worked on it. I was out there with these
people. They won`t renew that, and Mitch McConnell won`t bring it up for a vote.

Why is anybody from any party not bringing this up for a vote? It`s ridiculous.
These were our first responders.

MATTHEWS: Yes, they`re the ones -- our heroes.

KING: Yes.

MATTHEWS: Everybody cheered them after 9/11.

KING: No wonder people don`t like Congress.

MATTHEWS: Carole King, thank you. By the way, good luck saving wilderness
country. I love places -- I went out there a couple years ago to Montana and
Wyoming. It`s unbelievable. And Idaho.

KING: It`s --

MATTHEWS: Sun Valley, places like that. Ketchum.

KING: Ketchum.

MATTHEWS: The premier saloon. You wait three hours for a steak and it`s worth
it. It`s fantastic out there.

Carole King, it`s an honor. You`re going to be honored along with people like
Katharine Hepburn, Bette Davis, Frank Sinatra. What a list you`re going to be
on. They`re all going to welcome you there this weekend.

Thank you, Carole King, for giving us something good to talk about in this show.

We`ll be right back after this.

MATTHEWS: Let me finish tonight with some joy for a happy weekend. I say it to
all who live in our country tonight but especially to those who are deeply and
personally committed to its ideals. When you think about, it there is one truly
different fact about we Americans, it`s that you can become one of us. All you
have to do is love this country and commit yourself to it, make America your
country with all your heart.

Well, part of that commitment is accepting the commitment of others who`ve done
the same. I say this for the obvious reason, don`t you think? It`s out of the
fear that the very worst will come out of this horror in San Bernardino, that a
lot of us Americans will start to reject the basic American fact.

Again, it`s that you can become one of us. So, not being much different than
anyone else watching right now, listening to me, I know the emotions that come
up with this kind of thing happens. I`m as nationalistic as anyone. You know
that.

But I also know on my better moments that being an American nationalist means
rooting for our compatriots who came here from different places. Because unless
we stick to what that is and what our country`s based on, we`re going to see a
lot of coming apart that`s truly scary -- a blowing up of what holds this
country together and makes it exceptional. And that would be an explosion far
worse than any pipe bomb could cause.

That`s HARDBALL for now. Thanks for being with us.

"ALL IN WITH CHRIS HAYES" starts right now.

THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE
UPDATED.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120401cb.461

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript

                       Copyright 2015 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              Copyright 2015 MSNBC


                               21 of 24 DOCUMENTS


                                     MSNBC

                            December 4, 2015 Friday

                   SHOW: ALL IN with CHRIS HAYES 8:00 PM EST

ALL IN WITH CHRIS HAYES for December 4, 2015

BYLINE: Chris Hayes, Josh Barro, Joy Reid, Ayman Moyheldin

GUESTS: Jack Dolan, Rukmini Callimachi, Chris Murphy, Haider Mullick

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 7758  words



HIGHLIGHT: The San Bernardino attack is now being investigated officially as an
act of terror after authorities uncovered evidence the two suspects both now
dead may have been radicalized and inspired by terrorist groups overseas.
Interview with U.S. Senator Chris Murphy of Connecticut.


CHRIS HAYES, MSNBC HOST: Good evening from San Bernardino, California. I`m Chris
Hayes.

Tonight for the first time, we`re seeing the face of the second suspect in
Wednesday`s mass shooting. Tashfeen Malik, 27, who along with her husband, Syed
Farook, age 28, killed 14 people and wounded over 20 at a Center for the
Developmentally Disabled.

That attack is now as of today being investigated officially as an act of terror
after authorities uncovered evidence the two suspects both now dead may have
been radicalized and inspired by terrorist groups overseas.

In a joint statement with Attorney General Loretta Lynch, however, FBI Director
James Comey said the attackers appeared to have acted on their own.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JAMES COMEY, FBI DIRECTOR: So far, we have no indication that these killers are
part of an organized larger group or form part of a cell. There`s no indication
that they are part of a network. Again, I quickly add, it is early. We are still
working very hard to understand. But I wanted you to know that so far we don`t
see such indications.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: The couple apparently took pains to cover their digital trail, according
to officials destroying hard drives and other equipment. Law enforcement sources
told NBC News that Malik, who was born in Pakistan and lived in Saudi Arabia
before marrying Farook two years ago, posted a statement on Facebook as the
attack began, pledging allegiance to the leader of ISIS, Abu Bakr al Baghdadi.
Facebook confirmed to CNBC in fact that it pulled down the post after the
shooting for violating its community standards.

At a press conference today the FBI, which is now officially taking over the
investigation, said the couple may also have had direct contact with other
persons of interest.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DAVID BOWDICH, FBI ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, LOS ANGELES: What I`m ready to confirm is
there are some telephonic connections between these two individuals, at least
one of these individuals, and other subjects of our investigation.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: NBC`s Chris Jansing sat down tonight with Saira Khan, sister of Syed
Farook, who said she`s shocked by what she`s learned about her relatives.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SAIRA KHAN, SISTER OF SYED FAROOK: I had absolutely no idea that they were
involved with anything like that or that they were even capable of doing
something like this.

CHRIS JANSING, NBC NEWS: Who were the people you knew?

KHAN: I mean, my brother, the brother that I grew up with, shy, introvert, you
know, kept to himself, quiet. Kid that we knew that grew up and got married. And
his wife was recently here. She was only here for two years. We didn`t really
know her that well.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: I got a chance to speak earlier with San Bernardino police chief Jarrod
Burguan and ask him about the change in the case`s designation.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: What does it mean to you that it`s -- you know, people are wrestling with
this meaning of OK, now it`s a terrorism investigation. You`ve got -- whether it
was or wasn`t, right? You`ve got 14 people that got killed --

CHIEF JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE: Here`s the reality. As far as I`m
concerned, the way that we did this investigation from start to now would not
have changed regardless of whether this was workplace violence or terrorism. A
criminal investigation is very similar in the sense that you`re taking the
evidence that you have, you`re processing that evidence and you`re developing
the information that you have.

The FBI is tremendous in the amount of resources they can bring to the table
from an intel standpoint and that sort of stuff, but nothing would change up to
this point in the way that we`ve done this.

HAYES: And here`s the question. Should it change for the folks that are going to
get up and go to wok in San Bernardino tomorrow?

BURGUAN: No. Rest assured, rest assured we are on a high alert of -- well,
hopefully Saturday most people don`t have to work. Except for me apparently.

HAYES: You`re up at 3:30. Right.

BURGUAN: I don`t know about that. But I will say no. People need to live their
lives. We`ve asked people for years based upon what`s happened in this country,
you`ve got to live your life, you`ve got to go out, you`ve got to work, you`ve
got to enjoy your life, you`ve got to have a quality of life, you`ve got to
spend your money. You do all those things.

But you`ve got to be vigilant too. And we know that. And don`t change that
because of this.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: In addition to the arsenal of weapons and ammunition found in the
suspects` home, authorities found what documents obtained by NBC News call a
bomb-making facility in the garage, including materials for the same kind of
ignition system used in the Boston marathon bombing. All four of the firearms
recovered at the scene of the shooting were found to have been bought legally.
The handguns both purchased by Farook himself in 2011 and 2012 before he got
married. The two rifles were purchased by a second individual, someone
authorities say they`ve now identified and located.

Earlier today, I asked an ATF spokesperson for some clarification.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: So if the person`s been located, I just want to clarify this. That means
the shooters were not the people that purchased the weapons?

MEREDITH DAVIS, ATF SPOKESPERSON: The rifles.

HAYES: Yes, the rifles.

DAVIS: Correct.

HAYES: The shooters were not the ones that --

DAVIS: We`ve talked about Farook purchased the pistols but no one that was known
to law enforcement at the time of the shootout, they did not purchase the
rifles.

HAYES: Right.

DAVIS: So in essence, the ATF trace results developed a new lead.

HAYES: OK.

DAVIS: A lead that was not known to law enforcement before the trace results
came back.

HAYES: I see. So the trace results located the initial purchaser of those two
weapons.

DAVIS: Of the rifles.

HAYES: And the same purchaser of both.

DAVIS: Yes.

HAYES: And that person has been located?

DAVIS: Correct.

HAYES: And you know who that person is and where that person is?

DAVIS: Correct.

HAYES: That person is not in custody?

DAVIS: I don`t have information on that.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: Joining me now, Jack Dolan. He`s an investigative reporter for "The Los
Angeles Times", who has been working this story incredibly thoroughly.

Jack, what do we go I guess at this point? Let`s start with the weapons. We
still know that two of them were purchased by Farook, two purchased by someone
unknown. Is there anything else more that we know?

JACK DOLAN, THE LOS ANGELES TIMES: Well, according to the families` lawyers, the
family members knew that Farook had guns in the house. They were under lock
according to the lawyers. And so, that wasn`t a cause for concern or particular
interest.

We were also asking, you know, if it`s true that the couple were using the
garage as essentially a bomb-making factory how could that have escaped the
notice of family members?

And the attorney said that, you know, while Farook was a blood relative, that
they did not have a particularly close relationship with the other members of
the family and that when family members would come over to the house, they may
have gone into the garage on occasion but certainly weren`t inspecting it.

Now, the couple, Syed and Tashfeen, they lived with Farook`s mother. So the
question was posed, well, how could somebody actually living in the house with
this couple not have known that they were creating pipe bombs in the garage?

And the answer was that the mother lived mainly upstairs, away from the garage,
and didn`t venture in there very frequently because it was Syed`s man cave.

HAYES: You were doing some reporting yesterday about the sort of -- a clearer
picture coming in of Tashfeen Malik. She`s from Pakistan, lived in Saudi Arabia.
This appears to have been essentially an arranged marriage through an online
dating site. And Syed Farook went to Saudi Arabia to meet her and bring her
back. We have a picture of her now.

Do we know anything else now new?

DOLAN: What we were trying to find out was what her life in San Bernardino was
like. We were told she was a housewife. She was a housekeeper. She stayed at
home with the baby after the baby was born in May.

We were also told that she wore a full burqa whenever family members came over
and that the men and the women separated. So they didn`t sit together. The
brothers, the male members of Syed`s family, may never have seen her face
according to the lawyers.

So, there wasn`t much new to say about her. They said she was very quiet and
they said they simply did not know and did not discuss with her her views on,
you know, world affairs or what`s going on in the Middle East.

HAYES: The Facebook post that is in some ways -- appears to be something of a
smoking gun, although we don`t know the whole story yet, there`s been some back
and forth about what happened there, whether she posted under her own name or
under an alias, but it does appear it was done literally at the moment right
before this event took place.

DOLAN: Yes, about 11:00 a.m. So, it was shockingly close to the event.

The attorneys for the family, without going so far as saying she didn`t do it,
have raised the question of how does anyone know that it was her. If it was done
under a different name, how can they be so sure it was her? But, you know, they
don`t have the evidence themselves. They`re just raising that question.

HAYES: All right. Jack Dolan, thanks for your time tonight. I really appreciate
it.

DOLAN: Thanks.

HAYES: I`m joined now by Rukmini Callimachi. She`s a foreign correspondent for
"The New York Times". She focuses on al Qaeda and ISIS.

And, Rukmini, you were talking today on Twitter about the kind of M.O. here if
in fact this proves to be this woman posting this pledge of allegiance to Abu
Bakr al Baghdadi, just before the attack. That`s actually not the first time
something like that has happened.

RUKMINI CALLIMACHI, THE NEW YORK TIMES: Indeed, it`s not. The first time I think
that has happened in the U.S. was when Elton Simpson, a young man from Arizona,
and his accomplice drove to Garland, Texas, in May to attack the Prophet
Muhammad cartoon competition that happened there.

And literally I think in the minutes before that attack, just as you`re seeing
here, literally right before the attack in San Bernardino, the young man took to
Twitter and he announced on Twitter that he had pledged bay`ah, which is a term
they use meaning a pledge of allegiance, to amir al- muminin, which is the term
they use for Baghdadi, the head of the Islamic State.

And that follows what we have seen of the Islamic State where they have told
their followers in the west that in order to essentially carry out an attack in
their name as lone wolves, that really all they have to do is identify
themselves as having pledged allegiance to the group right before carrying it
out.

HAYES: Obviously, we saw in Paris, the attacks carried out by ISIS, there very
different in scale and in scope and in the level of logistical complexity. It
involves operatives and involved getting safe houses and stashes of weapons and
coordinating. You were saying today that this model of what we saw transpire
here, which appears to have been essentially an attack inspired by jihadists but
not operationally controlled by them, is actually a model they`re actively
pursuing and attempting to instigate.

CALLIMACHI: Indeed. The November 13th attacks in Paris -- I just got back from
Paris two days ago -- are really the anomaly. In Paris, we saw three groups of
commandos, nine attackers. Like you mentioned, rental cars, safe houses, et
cetera. And it`s very, very hard for that kind of organization to evade law
enforcement, even though it did.

What the Islamic State and like al Qaeda before it, what they realize is that
they`re under very heavy scrutiny in the West. And so, they have created a
system for radicalizing people in situ and for claiming attacks without having
any operational link to the core.

These days, in order to get in touch with the Islamic State, all you need to do
is have a twitter account. I`ve been able to speak to them. Other reporters have
been able to speak to them. And certainly Americans, young Americans have been
radicalized just by getting in touch with them over Twitter.

Once you are in their pipeline, you are then exposed to a series of propaganda
messages that essentially teach you that as a Muslim, it is your duty to inflict
harm on the infidels, meaning the rest of us, and they give you the tools to do
that.

The pipe bombs that you`re describing that were found in the garage and that
used the ignition that we saw during the Boston marathon bombs, that I believe
is a recipe that is widely available, including in al Qaeda`s "Inspire"
magazine. So all you need really is an Ethernet cable or a Wi-Fi connection and
you are then able to just find these things online, and put together the pieces
to be able to carry it out.

We saw Elton Simpson in May. We`ve now seen this attack in San Bernardino. And
don`t forget that last year in Canada, we had two back-to-back lone wolf-style
attacks, one that was on the parliament, another that was a drive-by car
accident that again had very similar elements of people that seemed to be
radicalized, just taking it upon themselves to do an act of violence.

HAYES: Part of the challenge I would imagine for counterterrorism officials in
this situation is exactly what you said at the beginning. If you`re dealing with
a couple who are only speaking to themselves about what they`re doing, if you`re
talking about a lone individual or in the case of Boston, the two brothers,
finding a kind of in to that if they`re keeping off the Internet or if they`re
not communicating openly with people, that strikes me as a pretty difficult
thing for the FBI or anyone else to do.

CALLIMACHI: Exactly. And what we`re seeing more and more of are family units. We
saw it with the Boston bombings as you just mentioned, two brothers. In Paris
this January for the "Charlie Hebdo" attacks, we again had two brothers. And
now, we have a husband and wife.

And so, there`s really nothing suspicious about a husband and wife speaking to
each other. That`s not the kind of communications that you would normally I
think be tapping into. People are usually -- law enforcement is usually looking
for communications outside of a family unit, and I think it becomes increasingly
difficult when it`s within those closed doors.

HAYES: Rukmini Callimachi of "The New York Times," really appreciate it.

CALLIMACHI: Thanks, Chris.

HAYES: Still ahead, what today`s news means for U.S. policy and counterterrorism
efforts. Senator Chris Murphy joins me ahead.

Plus, attorneys for the family of Syed Farook held a press conference, as Jack
was just saying. What they said about the current rhetoric about Muslims in
America and a few other things.

And later, how that rhetoric is playing out in the 2016 campaign and why Donald
Trump says these tragedies call his polling numbers to go up.

Those stories and more ahead.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: It`s taking off like crazy. The hats,
it`s going crazy.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: Today, Senator Ted Cruz campaigned at a gun range in Iowa, an event that
had been scheduled before the San Bernardino shooting. Cruz announced his
campaign and signed up 24,000 supporters for a so-called Second Amendment
Coalition and blasted efforts in Washington to reform gun laws.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. TED CRUZ (R), TEXAS: Liberal Democrats think it is insensitive to celebrate
our constitutional rights in the wake of a terrorist attack. It is these
constitutional rights that keep us safe. You don`t stop bad guys by taking away
our guns. You stop bad guys by using our guns.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: Well, look at what presidential candidates think should or should not be
done in the wake of the San Bernardino massacre, just ahead.

HAYES: Since the San Bernardino shooting, there have been of course ripples
through the political process and a discussion about what to do to prevent this
kind of attack. Of course, what kind of attack this was has been evolving quite
a bit over the last several days.

Some people have been very outspoken. On the day of the shooting, Senator Chris
Murphy said, "Your thoughts should be about the steps to take to stop this
carnage. Your prayers should be forgiveness if you do nothing again."

Had this been a workplace rampage with no link to terrorism, the political
discussion might have revolved once again solely around gun safety legislation,
which would have very likely gone absolutely nowhere.

But with authorities now investigating this as an act of terror, we will be
hearing much more from politicians about no doubt an expansive set of measures
they think should be taken. As just one example, today, Senator Lindsey Graham
talked specifically about the visa process that brought the female suspect
Tashfeen Malik to the U.S.

(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)

SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-SC), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: For about a year now, people
have been telling me about one way to penetrate America is to do arranged
marriages. That you find somebody in the U.S. that you can convert and take a
terrorist sympathizer and basically an al Qaeda-ISIL arranged marriage, and this
may be one of the first ones we`ve seen.

(END AUDIO CLIP)

HAYES: Joining me now, Senator Chris Murphy of Connecticut.

Senator, let me just start with that. That was the first I`d heard of anything
like that from Lindsey Graham, but I`m already seeing people say, well, you were
just telling us how well you vet the refugees and now, you`re telling us how
well you vet the visa applicants and look what happened. What do you say to
that?

SEN. CHRIS MURPHY (D), CONNECTICUT: Well, Lindsey tends to overhype many of the
threats this country faces. But he`s right in one respect, which is that we do
have to take a broad look at all of the ways in which people come to this
country. There`s been this hyper-focus on the small group of immigrants,
refugees that actually get the highest level of vetting, but there are different
levels when you move to the visa program and then when you move to the visa
waiver program, those countries that don`t actually have to have their citizens
go through a visa screening process, that probably do need to be beefed up.

So, that`s a conversation that could likely bring together Republicans and
Democrats if we broaden this beyond the question of just refugees fleeing
torture and terror from Syria and Iraq and talk about the broader process of
screening immigrants into this country. There`s probably some changes we could
make that would bring the two parties together and give people the sense that
Congress really is serious about beefing up security.

HAYES: It also strikes me that focusing on the visa avoids the more difficult
issue which is Syed Farook is an American citizen. He was born in Illinois. His
brother, as far as I know, is a Navy veteran. You know, this is essentially
American as apple pie. Even if the visa, Tashfeen Malik, came over and came over
with no radicalization, that may just well have happened here.

What do you do about that part of it? Is there a policy solution for the kinds
of things I was talk talking about with Ms. Callimachi?

MURPHY: So, I mean, I think we`re learning about the contacts this couple may
have had. But what we do know is that we are building the capacity to understand
when people are becoming radicalized, when they`re talking to individuals who
may be trying to recruit those into the radical cause, and those individuals get
put on a list.

Right now, that list essentially means that they can`t get on a plane, but many
of us believe that list also should mean that those individuals can`t buy a gun
either. We tried to get that passed through the Senate this week. Republicans
almost to a man and woman stood against it.

So, there are some things we can do domestically that would apply both to
American citizens and to temporary immigrants to this country that could make a
difference. Whether it would have made a difference in this situation, I don`t
know. But it certainly can be part of the prophylactic effort moving forward.

HAYES: I`ve seen conservative commentators and Republicans say, particularly
today once the FBI official said, look, we were investigating this act of
terror, they said well, you ridiculous liberals, you`re talking about guns, this
is nothing to do with guns, this is not about guns, this is an act of terror,
we`ve got to fight terrorism, we`ve got to destroy the caliphate and you should
eat your words from, you know, days ago about talking about guns.

What do you say to that?

MURPHY: But, of course, this is still about guns. The fact is that these two
individuals who walked into this building with military-style assault weapons,
there are reports they had large-scale magazines attached to them. The fact is
they were able to kill this many people in such a short amount of time in part
because of the kind of weapons that they had.

So, of course, what unites many of these killings, many of these mass murders,
is how easy it is in this country to get your hands on weapons that are designed
first and foremost to kill as many people as possible. So, no, we shouldn`t
simplify this killing or any of the others into a conversation just about guns.
Others may have a mental health component to it. This may have a
counterterrorism component to it.

But the idea that just because these may have been radicalized individuals
doesn`t mean that there isn`t an element of this conversation in which tighter
gun safety laws would have at least meant that less people died inside of that
building.

HAYES: As a lawmaker, I`m curious to hear how you processed the declaration
today this is being investigated as an act of terror. Because I think what I`ve
witnessed happen is that it`s almost like a magic word.

We go along and I`m reminded of the shooting at the community college in Oregon,
which I don`t even know if folks remember about anymore. Numerous people were
killed. I don`t know what the individual`s motive was. We sort of never found
out. We all packed up our cameras and went home.

The declaration it`s an act of terror today means something now. It means
something about the political conversation. What does it mean to you as a
lawmaker?

MURPHY: Well, I mean, I think there`s reason to treat this differently. In part
because this could be the first incidence of an ISIS-inspired large-scale attack
inside the United States and you have to be worried about copycats.

HAYES: Right.

MURPHY: So, we need to take this seriously as an act of terrorism.

At the same time, there are some people today that are saying, well, you know,
because mental health wasn`t an issue here, you should just shelve that effort
and all of your efforts should be about counterterrorism and fighting ISIL.

The fact is, there are going to be more mass killings, more mass shootings.
They`re going to look like the ones in Oregon, look like the ones in
Connecticut. So, we`ve got a big job to do which involves fighting ISIS but also
involves continuing our work to make sure that the 80 people a day that are
killed by guns that have nothing to do with terrorists gets a little bit lower
and lower as days and months go on.

So, this is a big job. But the ping-pong that sometimes happens in Washington
between attacking one kind of mass shooting and then attacking another kind of
mass shooting has to end. We`ve got to look at the whole gamut of policy
responses.

HAYES: All right. Senator Chris Murphy, thank you very much.

MURPHY: Thanks.

HAYES: Coming up, I had a chance to talk to two people who represent San
Bernardino. Asked what they wanted people to know about their city. What they
said, ahead.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: What your folks know -- I mean, it`s one of these bizarre things, right?
Mass shootings happen and we all come in. And people out there are going to --
all they`re learning about this is this terrible tragedy. What do you want
people to know about the folks here?

STATE SEN. MIKE MORRELL (R), CALIFORNIA: That`s a good question. Yes, you know,
as a representative, I mean, I pray for my country. I pray for safety and for
blessings over the people of my 23rd district.

And so, you know, when this happens, it hurts. We`re a good community. There`s
always going to be bad people. You know, that`s part of human nature.

But overall, this community`s a wonderful community. So, we had some bad people,
criminals, evil people that did some horrible things here and we`re devastated
by it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: That was part of my interview with California state senator mike morel, a
Republican who represents much of San Bernardino, a city that long before this
week`s massacre had been devastated by economic hardship. In fact, it`s now the
poorest city of its size in the entire state of California.

To understand better what the area has been going through over the past several
years I spoke with Cheryl Brown, California state assembly member, a Democrat
who grew up right here in San Bernardino and represents much of the city.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CHERYL BROWN, CALIFORNIA STATE ASSEMBLY: We felt like we were ignored many times
because we don`t get the resources here that others get. We have a city that`s
in bankruptcy. And our police force is stretched so thin. So before we feel that
-- I feel that I had to always be a champion for San Bernardino and for the 47th
assembly district. And I continue to be a champion.

Every time I get on the floor, every time I`m speaking with someone, the first
thing I ask them is what does that have to do with the 47th assembly district?
Because this district has been marginalized.

We`re the poorest district, and this is the poorest city in California and in
the nation next to Detroit. So for someone to come in and attack poor people at
a facility that`s helping disabled people -- oh, don`t let me -- that`s helping
disabled people, it really hurts so very much.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MOHAMMAD ABUERSHAID, FAROOK FAMILY LAWYER: I think what the media should also be
cautious about is just because he had a religion, that he was Muslim, it had
nothing to do with these acts. Islam does not agree and does not support any
type of actions that occur like this. It does not support killing. It does not
support murder of innocent individuals. And the family would never support
anything like this. And they`re giving their hearts and their prayers and
everything else that they can do to assist and the victims who lost their life
that day as well.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: That was one of the lawyers for the family of Syed Farook who earlier
this evening wrapped up what was a somewhat bizarre press conference where they
asserted repeatedly there`s no evidence the two suspects had any links to
extremist ideology, at least not definitive.

Also one of the lawyers inveighed against President Obama trying to take
people`s guns away, praised the second amendment. And he urged people not to
jump to conclusions about the two perpetrators` motives.

Joining me now, MSNBC foreign correspondent Ayman Moyheldin. And Ayman, I`ve got
to imagine the family obviously here is basically in an impossible situation.
Facing all these questions of people saying how could you not know, how could
you not know. What do you make of that press conference we saw today?

AYMAN MOYHELDIN, MSNBC FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, I mean, I think that you
really described it well. It was a somewhat bizarre press conference for some of
the reasons that were expressed in it. And what I mean by that is certainly the
fact that was confirmed by the lawyers, which was that the mother was living
with them and she was unaware of all of this activity that was taking place
inside the house, I think that struck me as a journalist seemed unusual.

He offered an explanation saying he`s trying to say that in a conservative
household she may not have been going everywhere in the house and things like
that. And again, that struck me as a little but the unusual.

These were individuals who according to the FBI planted -- or were planning and
orchestrating and fabricating in their house several pipe bombs. So the
appliances, the equipment that they had certainly would have been for any
individual somewhat of suspicion.

But in addition to, that the ammunitions they had and stuff.

He did confirm that the family knew that he had two pistols that were licensed.
So, they were aware of that.

But I think that there were some questions about that press conference.

You know, on one hand there was questions for me as a journalist, but at the
same time he was doing what he is required to do as a defense attorney, which
was really being as forthcoming as he can about this family, saying the family
absolutely did not know.

We heard it again time and time that the family was not particularly close. I
mean, they all knew each other well. But they did not know the wife. The wife --
obviously the woman who went on that shooting spree.

So I think there were a lot of questions. And I don`t think he necessarily
answered all of those questions apparently. And I think, again, there was some
confusion about what law enforcement officials have been saying, which is that
she made a post pledging allegiance to ISIS. The way he was characterizing it,
at least one of the lawyers was characterizing it in the press conference, he
was characterizing it as if she liked a post or that she -- he wasn`t
describing...

HAYES: Visited.

MOYHELDIN: Right. He wasn`t describing it as a pledge. In fact, he made this
kind of bizarre analogy of saying that if he likes a Britney Spears post it
doesn`t mean that he likes Britney Spears` music, which again, seemed a little
bit -- a very strange analogy to make given the context of what we are talking
about here.

HAYES: Ayman, let me ask you this. You spent years doing incredible reporting
from throughout North Africa and the Middle East and in Muslim countries. You
know, one of the things that happens here, right, is the news media is not
covering women in Hijabs or inside mosques or looking at prayer mats or Korans
at all most of the time.

Then something like this happens and there`s this sort of deluge of visual
stimulus to folks. And what is your concern about how people all compute that in
terms of the associations they have with what can be just basically
run-of-the-mill pious Muslim accouterments?

MOYHELDIN: Yeah, I mean, I think that`s -- that`s a very difficult question to
answer for a few different reasons. One, the context -- and the numbers show
this. That the majority of Americans don`t necessarily interact or engage with
Muslims, don`t necessarily know a lot about the Islamic faith. And so, the
symbols to them, or these elements of the Muslim faith are always constantly
questioned. And most of the time look at it across the spectrum of all American
media, taken out of context a lot.

And I think in this particular case it`s very difficult because you have
evidence that is emerging from the FBI about the background of these individuals
but when there`s a focus, for example, on oh, a young Muslim- American went to
perform the hajj and suddenly that`s suddenly a major cause of concern, that`s
then completely taking out of context what the hajj means and what every Muslim
person is driven to perform the hajj.

Because the overwhelming people who are performing the hajj have no affiliation
with terrorism. But the way that is perceived all of a sudden is a key piece of
the evidence. It`s not to rule it out, it`s not to say nothing happened in that
process. But it`s being able to take it and put it in the right context among
all of the other characteristics, you know, wearing the veil.

And we constantly hear this. I see journalists all the time say things like oh,
he went to pray at the mosque three times a day. Praying at the mosque three
times a day for a lot of Muslims is not a sign of any political leanings. It`s
just a sign of devotion no different than individuals, you know, in other faiths
practicing their religion in different ways. It`s just a characteristic of that
faith.

So I think again, when you put that with the headlines of things like Muslim
killers, those headlines become extremely dangerous given some of the
Islamophobia we`re seeing in the country. And I would be cautious of that for
all journalists not to take things out of context.

HAYES: All right, Ayman Moyheldin.

Haider Mullick. He`s a naval reserve officer, professor at the Naval War
College, wrote an op-ed today for The New York Times headlined "don`t make San
Bernadino a victory for ISIS"

Hader, what do you mean by that?

HAIDER MULLICK, NAVAL WAR COLLEGE: What I mean by that is don`t have a broad
brush approach that indicts an entire community. The approximately 3 million
patriotic by large law-abiding citizens whose loyalty is to the constitution and
live like everybody else. So what happens at times like this, a time of great
fear and confusion and anxiety, some folks want to put all of them in one
category.

Now I`m the first one to admit that there is a serious problem. There`s a small
cult that is very loud but very deadly within the Muslim community even here in
the United States. These are folks that we saw who went on this rampage. And
they get radicalized.

Now, they get radicalized for a whole host of reasons. But that community
exists. And one of the best things that have come out if you look at FBI data is
the community outreach program. And the last ten years many American Muslim
family members have come out and said, hey, my daughter is about to get
radicalized or is thinking of going to Syria or my son is acting differently or
has shown signs of violence. And that community gets disenfranchised. And that`s
exactly what groups like ISIS want.

They want American Muslims to feel that they will never be full citizens of the
United States. And that was my main concern.

But I also reached out to people through that piece who care less about that,
but just on a pragmatic level it`s very important to reach out to American
Muslim communities so we can gather more information, we can prevent these
attacks. And we`ve prevented hundreds of them in the last 10 to 15 years.
There`s real good data out there that FBI has produced.

And so it`s very important for that engagement to continue.

HAYES: Haider Mullick, thank you very much for joining me. I really appreciate
it.

MULLICK: Thank you.

HAYES: Still ahead, presidential candidates ramping up their rhetoric in the
wake of San Bernardino and Paris. We`ll show you what Donald Trump said tonight,
next.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Right here in our country in California...

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SHERIFF JOE ARPAIO, MERICOPA COUNTY, AZ: I decided last week, three days prior
to the unfortunate incident that`s occurring in California, to ask at least
250,000 citizens that wear concealed weapons to take action if they are ever in
a situation with large crowds where shooters are trying to kill, kill innocent
people.

My goal of utilizing 250,000 citizens armed with concealed weapons is to stop
the carnage, stop the killing before cops arrive.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: That was the sheriff of Arizona`s Maricopa County, Joe Arpaio today,
reiterating his call for citizen gun owners to act against mass shooters. We
should note Sheriff Arpaio`s call to arms is directly opposed by the chief
department an adjacent county, Steve Henry from Pinal County who says we don`t
want to walk into a gunfight between anybody, much less a gunfight where people
are untrained.

Chief Henry also warned that having gun-toting citizens firing at suspected
shooters could endanger innocent bystanders, an especially relevant piece of
advice as Arpaio specifically urged concealed carriers to fire their weapons in
situations with quote large crowds.

Also one slight correction to something I said earlier in my conversation. Chris
Murphy. I referred to the marriage between Farook and Malik, the two suspects as
arranged. That`s not true, they simply met over an online dating site. I regret
the error.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CRUZ: Folks in the media ask at the behest of Democrats, isn`t it insensitive
for us to do a second amendment rally following this terror attack? Let me tell
you something, I really don`t view our job as being sensitive to Islamic
terrorists.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: I`ve just lost IFB, just lost IFB.

2016 Republican hopeful Senator Ted Cruz followed through with his campaign stop
at a gun range in Iowa. The event was scheduled before Wednesday`s shooting in
San Bernardino.

But the Cruz campaign did release an official reminder about the event just
hours after that deadly shooting. In the wake of the Paris attacks and now the
shooting in San Bernardino, Republican presidential candidates have amped up the
rhetoric of terror and fear on the campaign trail.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I was wondering what you would say to President Obama now
that we have had a terrorist attack right here in our country in California.

TRUMP: It was a terrorist attack. It was. It was a terrorist attack.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: How would you handle that?

TRUMP: Oh, I would handle it so tough. You have no idea. You don`t want to hear.
You don`t even want to hear. You don`t want to hear how I`d handle it.

I will get myself in so much trouble with them. We are going to handle it so
tough. And you know what we`re going to do? We`re going to get it stopped,
because we can`t allow this to happen to our country. We`re going to get it
stopped.

And by the way -- and by the way, by the way, if the people in Paris or the
people in California, if you had a couple of folks in there with guns and that
knew how to use them and they were in that room, you wouldn`t have dead people.
The dead people would be the other guys.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: Joining me now, Josh Barro, correspondent for the Upshot for The New York
Times and MSNBC contributor -- and Joy Reid, MSNBC -- Joy Reid, MSNBC national
correspondent.

Let me read this to you about Trump`s talking about atrocities essentially. "I`m
going to protect people, and that`s why whenever there`s a tragedy everything
goes up. My numbers go way up because we have no strength in this country. We
have weak, sad politicians." The Real Clear polling average would seem to bear
that out.

He`s up about five points since the Paris attacks.

Josh, what do you make of it?

JOSH BARRO, MSNBC CONTRIBUTOR: Well, Trump sometimes manages to be ridiculous
without being wrong. And I think that actually is good analysis of the
situation, that people flock to him when they`re scared.

I thought that answer was interesting because it didn`t really mean anything.
They asked him what are you going to do about this? And it`s just oh, I`m going
to be so tough, I`m going to be so tough, which matches the sort of emotional
valence that voters want. I think not even just in the Republican primary. I
think a lot of voters want that. But he says that, it has no policy content at
all.

It`s partly because nobody seems to really have a clear plan on either side of
the aisle about what to do about -- well, certainly about the mess in the Middle
East and about ISIS. I think, you know, nobody wants to commit the number of
troops that would be required to actually take them out. So it`s a question of
sort of basically projecting strength without actually doing anything.

So really it matches what we`re hearing from a lot of the candidates.

HAYES: Joy, he reiterated something he said after Paris, which got him in a bit
of trouble, which was basically that if people had guns in this situation then
everything would have been fine, which does come perilously close to blaming the
victims of an atrocity, a mass slaughter.

JOY REID, MSNBC CORRESPONDENT: Yeah. And he`s echoing the NRA line that, you
know, if you just arm the sixth grade teachers you could have stopped Newtown,
if you armed all those people in church you could have stopped the Charleston
massacre.

But every piece of actual data that exists in the world reinforces the fact that
there`s never been a situation where the protypical good guy with a gun has been
able to stop a massacre. There was an armed security guard at Columbine who was
unable to stop that from happening.

And we`ve just never seen this actually happen in real life. Maybe on the show
"24."

But I think what we`re seeing right now is that the Republican Party and the
primary that is taking place within it is all Id, it`s all gut. It has nothing
to do with data and facts. It`s literally at least a third of the voters on the
Republican side looking in the mirror and seeing the candidate they want, the
person who`s expressing their deepest inner id.

And Donald Trump is that. He doesn`t need facts. He doesn`t need logic. He
doesn`t need data. He`s just id.

HAYES: I want to play something Marco Rubio said today. He had some somewhat odd
thoughts about bomb control. Take a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. MARCO RUBIO, (R) FLORIDA: And it doesn`t help when you have a president and
a political left in this country that immediately, within seconds, within
minutes of this attack, began putting out tweets about gun control and gun
control.

Well, we need bomb control, because these people were building bombs. We need
terrorist control.

(END VIDEO CLIP

HAYES: Josh, you know, what struck me about that were two things. One, it`s
unclear whether those bombs actually killed anyone, which has to do with the
fact that bombs are actually relatively difficult to make and to handle.

And number two, we pretty much do have bomb control in this country. You can`t
have bombs. It`s illegal.

What did you make of Rubio`s comments?

BARRO: Well, I think the one truth behind this is that I think that extremist
violence is actually not that big a problem in the United States. Since
September 11th we`ve had about 80 deaths overall from extremist violence, about
half of them Islamist and half non-Islamist, which is a pace of six a year.

If we rank the things that are actually dangers to life and limb for Americans,
this is pretty far down on the list. So I think it`s true that when an incident
like in happens it`s incorrect to look at it and say that this specific thing
requires a big policy reaction, whether that`s gun control or whether that`s a
military action somewhere round the world.

Now, we do have a real problem with gun violence in general, generally not of
this sort that is politically motivated and that involves many victims at once,
and that is a real policy question.

But I do think it`s true that sometimes when a big terrible thing happens there
is a lurch to try to find a policy solution for it when really if the big
terrible thing is rare enough it doesn`t really require a direct policy
solution.

REID: Bbut if the big terrible thing is cumulative and keeps happening and you
had on the same day that the San Bernardino shooting happened you had a shooting
in Georgia that was a mass shooting, you then had the Planned Parenthood mass
shooting in Colorado, also deadly. I think it`s not that each individual
specific event requires a policy response, it`s that the accumulation of death
requires finally at long last the United States government and its leaders to
decide that it might not be such a good idea to let people stockpile unlimited
amounts of military-style armaments as if we have American warlords.

I mean, I think it`s the accumulation, it`s not each individual event.

BARRO: But I think what`s accumulated is not mostly about military-style
armaments, it`s mostly about handguns. And I think, you know, it`s not that
every type of gun needs to be legal for people to possess. But I think if we`re
trying to figure out what`s the nature of the problem and which specific
policies will aim at that problem, we don`t want to focus specifically on these
sorts of military-style events because it will actually cause us to miss the
things that are dangerous about guns in America.

HAYES: Josh, what you just said I think is key in terms of how this sort of gets
refracted through the political system. Chris Christie was talking about you`re
talking about this attack in San Bernardino, you haven`t said anything about
Planned Parenthood on the trail, why? And he basically said they`re totally
different. The one in San Bernardino was foreign actors or people inspired by
foreign actors. And Joy, that gets to something real profound about the politics
of terror, the politics of the fear of invasion or penetration by a foreign
power that has a kind of salience, particularly in the Republican primary that
other issues don`t.

REID: Right. We define terrorism by the religious sect of the killer, not by the
act and by the fact of the terror that is involved in the act. And we have a
huge problem when people are just as terrorized at a Planned Parenthood clinic
don`t get the moniker. It`s not that the moniker brings back the dead, it`s that
the policy response is different when you`re talking about terrorism.

The Timothy McVeigh attack on the Murrah Federal Building was actually terrorism
despite the fact that he was not a Muslim. It is possible for terrorism to take
place if it`s the Klan who are professed Christians, if it`s an anti-abortion
terrorist. It`s all terrorism.

And very quickly, Chris, if you watch every other candidate becoming Donald
Trump, you really get a sense of where the party is right now. They`re all
attempting to be Donald Trump, not distinct from him.

HAYES: That is true.

Josh Barro and Joy Reid, thank you both.

We`ll be right back with some final thoughts from San Bernardino.

HAYES: You know, I`ve now spent the better part of three weeks immersed in the
strange mobile village of TV news coming to the site in the wake of an atrocity.
And it`s been weird and sad. And there`s two things I think that can get lost,
one thing for us and one thing for you.

The thing for us is in the air of competitive pressure it`s very easy to lose
sight of the fact that we are dealing with human beings. All the stories we`re
telling are about fellow human beings with inner lives and loves and hopes and
dreams and that competitive pressure, that desire to get the story can make us
forget there is a space for grace and dignity.

The other thing that gets lost I think if you`re watching all this coverage is
that we don`t cover the planes that land, as we say in the industry. That means
what happened here, what happened in Paris is blessedly rare.

THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE
UPDATED.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120401cb.478

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BREAKING NEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript

                       Copyright 2015 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              Copyright 2015 MSNBC


                               22 of 24 DOCUMENTS


                                     MSNBC

                            December 4, 2015 Friday

                    SHOW: THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW 9:00 PM EST

THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW for December 4, 2015

BYLINE: Rachel Maddow, Pete Williams

GUESTS: Malcolm Nance

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 7397  words



HIGHLIGHT: MSNBC`s coverage of the mass shooting in San Bernardino, California.
Donald Trump at this speech tonight in Raleigh, North Carolina, was interrupted
by different protesters ten separate times in the speech. "The New York Times"
is now reporting that White House officials are looking to ways to try to close
at least most of the gun show loophole without Congress, and they think they may
have a way to do it by President Obama alone.


RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: You`re great, Chris Hayes. You`re great at your job
and you`re a great guy. Thanks, man. Well done.

HAYES: Thank you, Rachel.

MADDOW: And thanks to you at home for staying with us this hour. He is great. I
mean it.

All right. The largest island in the Mediterranean is Sicily. You know how Italy
is shaped like a boot? Sicily is like a little soccer ball that`s being kicked
off the toe of the boot. That`s Sicily right there -- largest island in the
Mediterranean.

Second largest island in the Mediterranean is Sardinia, which is also Italian.
Basically, if the Italian boot had kicked the soccer ball of Sicily up into the
air, that would be Sardinia, where that soccer ball would go. Sicily and
Sardinia in the Mediterranean, those are the two largest islands.

The third largest island in the Mediterranean, though, is not Italian. It`s over
on the other side. It`s its own nation. It`s called Cyprus. Cyprus, you see it`s
on the right side of your screen there in red just above the MSNBC logo.

Cyprus is apparently a beautiful place. I`ve never been there. I would love to
go. But it`s over there in that part of the Mediterranean, over near Turkey and
Lebanon and Syria.

And Wednesday night this week, the British parliament held a ten-hour- long
debate over whether or not they would vote to send British military jets to
start bombing ISIS targets inside Syria, ten-hour debate. Prime Minister David
Cameron had asked parliament to do this before a year and a half ago and he
suffered a huge political defeat, a defeat so bad it could conceivably have cost
him his seat as prime minister, when the parliament unexpectedly said no to his
requests for airstrikes in Syria back in 2013.

But this time, this week, Wednesday, the British parliament said yes. And it was
not that much of a surprise, even though it was a reversal. After the Paris
attacks, after the opposition labor party basically stopped fighting the
conservatives on this issue, David Cameron and his government, they basically
knew that they were going to win this time, that they were going to get that
vote this week.

And part of the reason we know that they were confident of that vote is because
British Typhoon and Tornado jets had already taken off from Scotland and landed
at the British air base on Cyprus. And those British warplanes were sitting
there on the runway in Cyprus gassed up and bombs loaded and ready to go as soon
as they got word that that vote had gone through in parliament.

And the vote in parliament went through, and those planes in Cyprus basically
immediately took off. And they took off for Syria with bombs loaded under their
wings and they came back from those missions in Syria without the bombs anymore.

And that started this week, the first U.K. air strikes against ISIS targets in
Syria. It was overnight Wednesday night into Thursday morning. They apparently
hit some Syrian oil fields with those bombs.

And now, after Britain made that decision, today, it`s Germany. Today, it was
the German parliament which also voted that they would send their military to
support strikes against ISIS inside Syria. Germany`s parliament voting today to
send 1,200 German troops and a naval frigate and a bunch of Tornado
reconnaissance jets to support anti-ISIS strikes in Syria as well.

So, our European allies, our closest allies, France and Britain and Germany,
they are all now following us, following our military into what has been a long
American military campaign already against ISIS. The U.S.- led military
coalition against ISIS, which has mostly been the U.S. military, it`s already
launched thousands of airstrikes against ISIS targets both in Iraq and in Syria.
And whatever the effect of those thousands of airstrikes so far, those thousands
of bombs dropped on ISIS targets, these months and months and months of bombing
ISIS so far have not apparently done anything to stop ISIS-inspired or even
ISIS-directed terrorist attacks around the world including deep in the heart of
the West.

Nevertheless, ISIS attacks in the West have now inspired more countries to get
in on that ongoing military campaign. Whether or not it`s actually working, it`s
about to get bigger. There`s going to be more airstrikes now. There`s going to
be more targets hit. The airstrikes will be launched and supported by more
countries` militaries.

In those countries in France and Britain and Germany, these countries that have
made recent decisions to get in on the fight against ISIS in Syria and those
countries, our great allies, they at least bothered to vote on doing this. They
believe that their parliaments ought to vote on new big military missions and
how to fight ISIS. They had these big dramatic votes in their various
parliaments in the last few weeks.

In France, right after the Paris terror attacks, in Britain on Wednesday, in
Germany today, they voted. They believe in those countries that it is a
political decision of their democracies, whether or not to wage war, whether or
not to join a big military campaign. In this country, on paper, that`s how it`s
supposed to be. That`s supposed to be the way we do it.

But in recent years, we have evolved in such a way as a country that our
parliament, our Congress doesn`t really do that part of its job anymore. Our
politicians now yell at each other about military campaigns and fighting ISIS
but they never actually vote on it. And so, we`re in this interesting place as a
country because we are engaging in no formal small-D democratic or political
processes at all on this issue of fighting ISIS, and waging this military
campaign against them in Iraq and Syria. At the same time our country is
participating in and in many ways leading the international military fight
against ISIS, which is rapidly escalating now not just in terms of the numbers
of U.S. troops that are committed to that force, but it`s escalating now into
something that is almost starting to look like a World War effort against ISIS.

And that was all before the latest mass shooting in America was linked to ISIS.
With today`s reporting one of the two San Bernardino shooters, the female
shooter appears to have posted online an endorsement of ISIS and a pledge of
allegiance to the ISIS leader just before Wednesday`s mass shooting attack in
southern California.

And whether or not any vote will ever be cast by any American politician as to
how ISIS should be responded to, as to how ISIS should be fought, we are, even
without votes, we are seeing a change in American politics because of this issue
and we`re seeing it on the American political right in particular.

Since Paris, the Republican presidential polling has shifted inexorably to
solidify and increase the lead of the Republican presidential front-runner
Donald Trump. The latest Republican national poll is just out today from CNN and
it shows something pretty remarkable. It shows Donald Trump`s lead leaping out
to an unprecedented margin.

I know Mr. Trump has been in the lead for a while. You`ve heard that. But look
at that margin. This is almost a qualitatively different kind of lead. And if
you need more evidence for that and you don`t want to believe me here on MSNBC,
then watch how almost uncontrollably excited CNN itself was to present the
results of their own poll, which produced this result, which they themselves
apparently can barely believe.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ALISYN CAMEROTA, CNN ANCHOR: A brand new CNN/ORC poll just released has some
bombshell findings. Not only is Donald Trump still in the lead, he is leading by
a stunning amount.

Take a look. Trump is now at 36 percent. This is his all-time high. It is 20
points above his closest competition and that is now Senator Ted Cruz, while Dr.
Ben Carson has slipped to third at 14 percent.

Pundits got it wrong. First they said that he was going to hit -- 20 percent was
his ceiling. He would never get higher than 20 percent. Then he hit 25 percent.
Well, that was going to be his ceiling.

Then it was 30 percent. He won`t get anymore. Last week, it was 32 percent.
Today, it`s 36 percent.

What`s going on?

DAVID CHALIAN, CNN POLITICAL DIRECTOR: What`s going on is total Donald Trump
dominance over the Republican field. Alisyn, inside this poll where you`re right
this lead is larger than we`ve seen all cycle long, he`s dominating on every
issue, right? On commander in chief, on the economy, on how to deal with ISIS.
You name the issue, especially an issue like immigration, he is the dominant
force inside the field right now.

So, yes, it bears out in these horse race numbers. But it`s even almost more
impressive for him when you look under the hood at all those issues that are
driving it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MADDOW: In this new CNN poll, Donald Trump is at 36 percent. That is 20 points
ahead of his nearest competitor, who is Ted Cruz. But the Ted Cruz part of it is
almost immaterial. There`s Donald Trump way up ahead. The second tier all
bunched together as Ted Cruz, Ben Carson, Marco Rubio. That`s basically the
whole field, though. Nobody else in the entire field even hits 5 percent.

I mean, that`s just astonishing news for Donald Trump as a front- runner. It is,
I have to say, equally astonishing news for some of those very far down ballot
candidates including Rand Paul. Senator Rand Paul, who`s now nationally at 1
percent. He does not look like he`s going to make it onto the main stage for the
debate, which will happen in a week and a half.

Even more astonishing, though, than Rand Paul`s political death is what seems to
be happening to would-be front-runner Jeb Bush. Jeb Bush may be the
establishment favorite but he nationally right now is at 3 percent in the polls.

And he`s at 3 percent in the polls despite this level of ad spending. Do you
remember? This was the other shocking political data we got this week which is
the combined ad spending by candidates` campaigns and the super PACs supporting
them.

Jeb Bush is almost tripling his nearest competitor in terms on how much money he
has spent on ads. He has already blown through $30 million in pro Jeb Bush ads.
And what that has bought him is a grand total of 3 percent in the national
polls.

At this point, he would be better off just setting his millions of dollars on
fire because at least that would have the side effect of keeping somebody
somewhere warm. But his $30 million burnt so far has bought him nothing.
Politico.com today quotes unnamed Jeb Bush staffers wondering out loud if the
Jeb Bush campaign will even still exist by the time the Iowa caucuses happen on
February 1st. One Bush donor based in New York City according to "Politico"
tells the publication, quote, "I think staff morale is exceedingly low. I
suspect they know they`re in a death spiral now. There is no getting out of
this."

Jeb Bush loyalists are trying to spin "Politico" into reporting they`ve still
got a chance, they`ve still got confidence it might happen for them. They
apparently are not going to run just more ads. But now they`re going to start
running ads that are 15 minutes long for Jeb Bush.

And sure, maybe voters who hate 30-second chunks of Jeb Bush will love something
30 times longer than that. But if that`s the big idea, I don`t see much reason
to hope. I mean, one Bush adviser tried to sell the idea that even though they
will definitely lose Iowa they think they have a chance of winning New
Hampshire. This Bush adviser tells "Politico", quote, "We are right in the mix
in the Granite State."

In fact, if you look at the last New Hampshire Republican poll which is just out
a couple days ago from PPP, Jeb Bush is not right in the mix with a chance to
win New Hampshire. Jeb Bush in New Hampshire is in eighth place.

He`s getting beaten there by Carly Fiorina and John Kasich. He`s getting lapped
by Chris Christie. He`s losing to Donald Trump in New Hampshire by 22 points,
which is better than the 33 points by which he is losing nationally to Donald
Trump. But still.

It may seem crazy but it appears now to be almost inarguably true that as
national security and terrorism concerns increase in the United States and among
the electorate in terms of things they say are most important to them, so does
the prospect that Donald Trump really is going to be nominated as the
presidential nominee for the Republican Party.

And let me make one last point about the crazy aspects of this. One of the
crazier things, one of the most seemingly insane things that has happened in the
aftermath of the San Bernardino attack is the conspiratorial raving by this kind
of wing nut lawyer who Syed Farook`s family has apparently hired to represent
them in the aftermath of Syed Farook and his wife carrying out this attack in
southern California.

As part of I guess explaining or trying to explain away the San Bernardino
attack, this lawyer in southern California has suggested to the press that maybe
the San Bernardino attack didn`t really happen. Maybe it was all faked. You
know, so the gun control people can get what they want -- the way the Sandy Hook
massacre was faked.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

FAROOK FAMILY LAWYER: You can`t really trust these -- first of all, none of the
family members or anyone was ever aware of any pipe bombs. I can`t -- I don`t
think you can really trust that information. And then also, this --

REPORTER: Trust what information?

FAROOK FAMILY LAWYER: I understand that this evidence was particularly -- was
supposedly found on the scene.

REPORTER: We saw them with the helicopters.

FAROOK FAMILY LAWYER: There`s a lot of motivation at this time to create -- to
emphasize or create incidents that will cause gun control.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MADDOW: There`s a lot of motivation at this time to create incidents that will
cause gun control. He`s suggesting that all this news about there being some
kind of massacre in San Bernardino was manufactured by people who want gun
control. You know, of course it`s happened before.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

FAROOK FAMILY LAWYER: It does seem plausible to us that this petite woman would
be involved in this hyper caricatured kind of Bonnie and Clyde kind of crazy
scenario. There was a lot of questions drawn with regard to Sandy Hook and
whether or not that was -- that was a real incident or not. We just don`t know.
But I mean -- obviously, these things were found there. How they got there we
don`t know.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HAYES: There was a lot of questions drawn with regard to Sandy Hook and whether
or not that was a real incident or not. We just don`t know.

This is insane, right? I mean, I don`t know why the family of the dead attackers
from San Bernardino have hired a lawyer or why they have hired this particular
lawyer, but apparently, part of their public defense is going to be that maybe
this whole thing didn`t really happen. Maybe the whole San Bernardino massacre
was faked by the government or by some other people who want to take away your
guns. Maybe it was a false flag attack. Just like all those questions we have
about whether or not the Sandy Hook massacre of first-graders was faked or
carried out by the government in order to create a desire for gun control and
thereby steal away your guns.

It`s insane. It`s so offensive I almost can`t describe it. I almost cannot speak
of it. But conspiracy theories like this exist in our country, right? They
circulate in our country.

And they come from somewhere. And mostly where they come from is the Web site
and radio show of a man named Alex Jones, who is the foremost and most insistent
proponent of the idea there wasn`t a massacre at Sandy Hook and all those kids
weren`t really killed, it was all faked for political effect by people who want
your guns.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ALEX JONES, INFO WARS: Yes. So, Sandy Hook is a synthetic, completely fake, with
actors in my view manufactured. I couldn`t believe it at first. I knew they had
actors there clearly but I thought they killed some real kids. And it just shows
how bold they are.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MADDOW: The idea that the sandy hook massacre was faked, and also in his words
that the Boston bombing was faked. And also, of course, that 9/11 was faked.

And yes, this same guy, of course, is now promoting the idea that the San
Bernardino massacre this week was faked, it was also a false flag conspiracy to
try to come and take your guns.

That guy`s name is Alex Jones. He runs a radio show and a popular conspiracy
theory Web site.

And lest you think there is some divide between the craziness in the world and
the craziness in our politics, lest you think that by God, by right there has to
be some distance between that kind of offensive insanity and the small-D
democratic system of the greatest democracy on the face of the earth, lest you
think there`s any distance there, let it be known that on the day of the San
Bernardino attacks, that morning before we got word that that massacre had
happened, that day, the prohibitive front-runner for the Republican presidential
nomination spent that morning doing a half hour-long fawning mutual appreciation
society interview with Alex Jones -- with the guy who says that those kids
didn`t die at Sandy Hook, Sandy Hook massacre was a fake, and the Boston bombing
was a fake and 9/11 was a fake and after we learned about San Bernardino, of
course, he says San Bernardino was a fake, faked by these people who act these
things out as elaborate hoaxes to take your guns because that`s what the U.S.
government does.

In his interview with the Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump, he
told Mr. Trump, quote, "You are a true maverick." He told Donald Trump that he
thinks 90 percent of his audience supports Donald Trump for president.

And so, yes, this is as nuts as nuts can be. But this is not the fringe anymore.
This is the modern Republican Party, and it looks like they are really going to
do this. Hold on. This might hurt.

MADDOW: So this just in, as they say. This just happened. As we were just
talking about Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump, new national
CNN poll gives him the largest lead he has ever had in the race nationwide. He
is 20 percent ahead of his nearest competitor. He`s now 33 percent ahead of Jeb
Bush.

You think that Mr. Trump would be happy. But earlier tonight he spoke to several
thousand supporters in Raleigh, North Carolina. He started off by getting a warm
reception from the crowd. But then this happened.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I don`t want it.

(SCREAMING)

TRUMP: You know, the shame is that it`s one -- it`s one person. And the
dishonest media, they are dishonest. You don`t believe how dishonest.

They will make that one person into the headline. Trump has -- they can`t even
use the plural. They can`t put the S. But they`ll figure it out. But they`ll say
Trump has protester.

(END VIDEOI CLIP)

MADDOW: That would be incredibly dishonest, right? To make one protester seem
like lots of protesters.

But then Donald Trump went on to get interrupted by protesters nine more times.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

(BOOS)

TRUMP: That`s number four.

(BOOS)

TRUMP: OK. I think he came back. I think he came back. Don`t worry about him.
We`ll do this quickly.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MADDOW: You may have heard that some of those protesters were saying something
that sounded like "Black Lives Matter." And that may be what they were saying.
It is not clear at all, though, if the protesters were all from the same group.

Donald Trump at this speech tonight in Raleigh, North Carolina, was interrupted
by different protesters ten separate times in the speech.

There was an NBC reporter in the room who counted them. That said, all reporters
are dishonest.

At the end of the tenth interruption, Mr. Trump ended his speech and walked off
the stage.

We`ll be right back.

MADDOW: So the amount of new information released about the San Bernardino
attack, the amount of new information released today was small but significant.
First, there`s the big news that the female shooter had reportedly pledged
allegiance to ISIS on a Facebook page basically as the attacks were getting
under way. We also got our first photo of that female attacker. She`s a
Pakistani citizen named Tashfeen Malik.

In terms of the law enforcement response, the FBI now says they are
investigating the attack as an act of terrorism, but they also say there`s no
definitive indication the couple were acting in concert with anyone else.

That said, at today`s press briefing by authorities in San Bernardino the local
police chief also spelled out in careful detail another incident in San
Bernardino that preceded the attack. Watch.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CHIEF JARROD BURGUAN, SAN BERNARDINO POLICE DEPT.: On Monday night, Tuesday
morning before the incident, so November 30th, December 1st, right around
midnight, 1:00 in the morning, there was an incident at the regal cinema in
downtown San Bernardino at 4th and E Street, and what that case was is that a
gentleman that was described as appearing to be Middle Eastern came up and spoke
to the security guard around the time the theater was closing, and he was asking
the security guard some questions about the movies and times and things like
that but the security guard kind of thought that it was odd.

That person ultimately left in a silver Volvo four-door vehicle, 2012, 2013. We
do not have a plate. The security guard thought it was weird. Shortly
thereafter, the security guard then noticed a red late `90s Dodge Durango
driving around the area with another person that was possibly Middle Eastern in
appearance, that appeared to be taking some photographs in and around the
theater. So, the security guard took it upon himself, notified our police
department.

We got out that day or that night, we took a report, and we put that out in a
BOLO to every law enforcement area -- I`m sorry, every law enforcement agency in
the county as just simply some suspicious circumstances that were noted. So,
that is all we have on that.

And then it went into the regular investigative channels and protocols where the
local was notified and they`re doing an investigative follow-up, looking at
video, that sort of stuff, to try to determine if there`s a real threat or to
see if there`s any plates associated with those vehicles.

At this point, we have zero connection that -- or zero evidence or information
that connects that event with what happened here at the Inland Regional Center
on Wednesday morning.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MADDOW: They said they had zero evidence that there was any connection between
that event just described by the San Bernardino police chief and the mass
shooting that happened on Wednesday morning. But they did go through that
incident, that previous incident Monday night, Tuesday morning in very specific
detail. So on the same day that the FBI director said that the FBI has no reason
to believe there was anybody else working with the couple who carried out the
San Bernardino attack, we also got this new information and just this new
information that you saw there about local police concerns at a downtown San
Bernardino movie theater on the Monday night this week before the attack.

The movie theater in question is about a nine-minute drive from where
Wednesday`s attack took place at the Inland Regional Center.

Once again, though, the word from the FBI today is that they have no indication
that the attackers acted as part of a terror network or terror cell. My question
is, what do we know about what gives authorities that sense?

Joining us now is NBC News justice correspondent Pete Williams who was at the
FBI director`s briefing today.

Pete, thanks very much for staying with us tonight. I appreciate you being here.

PETE WILLIAMS, NBC NEWS JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: You bet.

MADDOW: What makes the authorities believe that the shooters weren`t linked to
any larger group?

WILLIAMS: Found no indication of it. Most of the evidence that they have so far
is pretty clear, is records that are in the possession of others. That is to
say, phone records, e-mail, social media, that kind of thing.

The primary source material would be the electronic devices themselves, their
phones, their computers. The FBI has those, but it`s going to be hard to get any
information off of them very quickly because the killers, as the FBI director
calls them, went to great lengths to try to conceal what`s on them. They smashed
them. They threw the cell phones away. They banged up the hard drives.

So, it doesn`t mean they can`t get anything off of them. But it`s taking a
while. And the electronic communications they have, they reveal, for example,
this Facebook posting, phone calls to others, but they don`t give substance
other than the Facebook posting of what they were talking about.

So, it`s hard for the FBI to know what their plans were, who they were in
communication with -- well, what the communication was. There`s no indication
that they say that a foreign terror group was in touch with them or any own
terrorists were in touch with them either in the U.S. or overseas.

MADDOW: The information about the Facebook posting, specifically about the
female member of the couple, we have not heard about any similar allegations of
any profession of faith or allegiance to ISIS from the male part of the couple.

WILLIAMS: Right.

MADDOW: Is that feeding a thesis, a law enforcement thesis that she may have
been the instigator, that she may have been the radicalizing force here, if
that`s the appropriate thing to call it?

WILLIAMS: I wouldn`t call it a thesis based on the people I`ve talked to. It`s
certainly a question. And you can understand why.

You look at the trajectory of Syed Farook`s life. He seems to be fitting in,
doing well with his colleagues. And was there a change in his life? Well, a year
ago he brought his bride back that he met online and picked up overseas from
Saudi Arabia, where they had their first face-to- face meeting and brought her
to the United States.

So, she`s been here a little over a year. She became a lawful permanent resident
a year after she got here July of this year.

So the question naturally arises, is that the precipitating event? Did she
become radicalized when she was here or did she come here with radical views?
Was she a plant?

All those questions are on the table. And they just don`t really have any
information to answer them.

They know very little about either of these two in terms of their radical views.
They can`t say what the motive was. They can`t say why did they attack this
place, was there some other attack they had in mind, why did they have all those
bombs, why did they have all that ammunition"

They`re haunted by those questions at this point, but they don`t have the means
to answer them yet.

MADDOW: NBC News justice correspondent Pete Williams -- Pete, thank you very
much. I appreciate you being here on a Friday night. Thank you.

WILLIAMS: OK.

MADDOW: We`ve got much more ahead tonight. Stay with us.

MADDOW: Programming note: after this show tonight I am not sending you to prison
because you are going live instead to NBC`s Chris Jansing, who`s going to be
hosting "THE LAST WORD" tonight live from San Bernardino, in part that is
because Chris Jansing today had an incredible get for an interview. She has been
able to speak with the sister of Syed Farook, the sister of one of the San
Bernardino attackers.

Again, NBC`s Chris Jansing interviewing Syed Farook`s sister, here tonight on a
live edition of "THE LAST WORD" that is after this show. You are not allowed to
go to prison, at least not yet.

We`ll be right back.

MADDOW: In 1972, terrorists kidnapped 11 members of the Israeli Olympic team at
the Munich Olympics. All 11 hostages were killed. The hostage takers tortured
and killed some of the hostages themselves, but most of the hostages` deaths
occurred during a rescue attempt by German police that went disastrously wrong.

The German military did have skilled snipers and the kind of commando training
that would have been helpful in planning and executing a hostage rescue raid
like that. But German law said their military couldn`t ever be used on German
soil and the police just didn`t have the capacity to do something like that
properly.

So, after that, within less than a year after that disaster, Germany invented
for itself a new domestic elite police unit made up of civilian police officers
but with lots of elite military gear and military-style training. That unit
still exists today. They`re called GSG 9. And that is the elite German force
that to this day handles things like domestic counterterrorism operations and
hostage rescue.

The Munich disaster was 1972. GSG 9 was created in response in 1973.

1973 is also when the FBI created its first formal SWAT team in this country. In
the late 1960s, the early 1970s, the United States had faced our own spasm of
domestic terrorism, mostly from radical leftist groups and various separatist
groups.

Even if you just take the issue of hijackings as an example, between 1968 and
1972, there were over 130 U.S. airplanes that were hijacked, 130 hijackings in
four years.

In 1973, there was a 71-day armed standoff at Wounded Knee between members of
the American Indian movement and the FBI and U.S. Marshals Service, 71 days.
There was a lot of gunfire exchanged over those 71 days including sniper fire.
In the end, 15 people were wounded, two people were killed. That was the winter
of 1973.

And later that year, the FBI`s New York field office decided that they would
create that agency`s first formal SWAT team. Some local police departments had
been experimenting with the idea. The Germans at that time were creating their
own federal elite special weapons and tactics unit with its GSG 9 group.

But the New York field office at the FBI in `73 decided they would take the leap
for that agency. An elite team of FBI agents specially trained and equipped as
almost a commando force to deal with kidnappings and hijackings and heavily
armed suspects and explosives.

New York field office was first and then a year later, the FBI decided every
field office around the country should have its own SWAT team. Today, there are
56 FBI field offices and each of them, all 56 of them, have their own SWAT team.
They call it a tactical team.

FBI agents working at that field office volunteered for that job, they get
special training, special vetting. And when the occasion arises, they can be
called up for SWAT duty at a moment`s notice. Your federal taxpayer dollars at
work.

And on Wednesday this week, when San Bernardino police approached a house in
Redlands, California, that was believed to have been used by the suspects in the
San Bernardino mass shooting and the police took a look inside and realized they
did not have the manpower or the training to properly deal with a house that was
possibly filled with active explosives, they made a call. They called in the FBI
field office in Los Angeles and asked them to please send over their tactical
team to help.

And it was that specialized unit, the FBI tactical team that took over that
site, that conducted the search of that house, and indeed it was good it was
them dealing with it because officials now say there really were 12 pipe bombs
in that house as well as equipment and materials to make many, many more.

A lot of the FBI`s resources are located at their D.C. headquarters. The agency
has flown in a special team from there to reconstruct crime scenes in San
Bernardino. They`re sending evidence from the shooting to their Washington
laboratory by plane once or twice a day now. But one of the legacies of an
earlier period of frequent terrorist violence in U.S. history and world history
is that on Wednesday night when local police in San Bernardino basically ran out
of resources, they had at their disposal an FBI-trained elite equipped tactical
team ready to go, ready to handle it just a short drive away.

Law enforcement has a lot of capacity in this country. Does law enforcement have
the specific capabilities, the specific weapons and tactics that they need,
particularly when it comes to preventing incidents like this, when it comes to
stopping incidents like this before they happen, particularly when it seems like
all the relevant contacts, all the relevant enlistment, these declarations of
intent, they all now seem to happen online?

Joining us now is Malcolm Nance. He`s a former U.S. counterterrorism and
intelligence officer. He`s now the executive director of the Terror Asymmetrics
Project. His next book is called "Defeating ISIS."

Malcolm, it`s good to see you. Thanks for being here.

MALCOLM NANCE, VETERAN U.S. INTELLIGENCE OFFICER: Always good to see you,
Rachel.

MADDOW: I understand you as part of your work are going to be training some
domestic tactical units on counterterrorism techniques and approaches. What are
the big principles you that think need to be used for that kind of stuff in the
United States right now?

NANCE: Well, we actually do have a lot of capacity, as you said. Ever since that
period in the 1970s, you know, when the first SWAT team started evolving after
the Munich Olympics and all the -- as you said, American hijackings, a lot of
American terrorist groups, small-scale terrorist groups like the SDS.

That capacity has grown over that period of time. And then you accelerate that
to the period post-9/11 where we decided to have this capacity in virtually
every city, not just with the federal level but also with the state and local
level. There is a lot of military-trained people. There are a lot of weapons
systems out there now. People complain about militarized vehicles and things
like that with their law enforcement organizations.

But this capacity is needed to a certain extent. Now, we`ve seen this week and
after the incidents that occurred in Paris people are starting to realize we
need this kind of capacity. We need heavily armored vehicles. We need 50-caliber
sniper rifles. That is there in place.

As you saw in San Bernardino a large quantity of material came in. You had this
local, you had the sheriffs, you had the state troopers and then the FBI tac
teams come in from Los Angeles.

MADDOW: But you had all of those people come in after everybody was already
dead.

NANCE: Right.

MADDOW: And what we don`t have, or I guess what I want to know, if we are
getting better at, is the kind of counterterrorism weapons and tactics -- and
maybe I mean weapons in scare quotes -- but the kind of thing that would let us
see these things coming before they happen eventually.

NANCE: In fact, that would be anti-terrorism.

MADDOW: Yes.

NANCE: And we do have great anti-terrorism capacity but as you saw in this
incident, these people were operating in a vacuum. And, you know, I`ve heard all
day today why it didn`t they see it, how come the family didn`t know about this?

Well, you have to know about what goes on in the intelligence level of the
organization that you`re operating against. Let`s say we`re assuming right now
we`re all up against ISIS and ISIS-inspired people, al Qaeda- inspired people.
We know right from the bat, the first thing they do is isolate you away from
your family.

We saw that in the Omar Abdulmutallab, the airplane bomb. His parents in Nigeria
went to the Central Intelligence Agency and said we don`t know what`s going on
with our son, he doesn`t talk to us, we think he`s a threat to the United
States. That`s how we learned about it, because they couldn`t communicate with
him.

So, it`s the level of intelligence that now needs to come out to U.S. law
enforcement is almost the same that we had in 2003 when I was training state and
homeland security departments. Foreign intelligence officers from the Middle
East like myself now have to come to federal and local law enforcement to give
them the same intelligence capacity and the same intelligence training as a U.S.
special operations unit in Iraq or Afghanistan would have.

MADDOW: So --

NANCE: That`s the factor that`s missing.

MADDOW: And as we have seen the sort of physical up-scaling in our capabilities,
the intelligence, the -- basically bringing intelligence home is part of it that
we`re halfway down the path to.

Malcolm Nance, former U.S. counterterrorism and intelligence officer - -
Malcolm, thank you. I learn something every single time I talk to you.

NANCE: It`s my pleasure.

MADDOW: Appreciate it. We`ve got lots more ahead today, including an incredible
story out of California that has absolutely nothing to do with terrorism but is
jaw-dropping in its own way. That`s ahead.

Stay with us.

MADDOW: I know you don`t read the physical paper anymore. I know you get all
your news online and on TV.

Here`s a reason to go buy "The New York Times" in print tomorrow. Tomorrow
morning when "The New York Times" is published for the first time since 1920,
they are going to run an editorial on their first page. A-1 of the "New York
Times" tomorrow includes an editorial called "The Gun Epidemic," which argues
that it is a "moral outrage and national disgrace, the state of our nation`s gun
laws."

Again, first time they`ve run an editorial on page 1 since 1920. That`s tomorrow
morning in "The New York Times".

MADDOW: For gun control activists, it`s become a white whale. A loophole in our
existing federal gun laws allows thousands of people a year to buy guns without
having to have a background check. You just have to buy your gun from somewhere
other than a gun store.

That loophole was tacked into the Brady Act which took effect in 1994.
Basically, the result of is, if you buy a firearm at a federally licensed
dealer, yes, you have to get a background check. But if you guy a gun from a
private seller, even if it`s a huge gun warehouse market place, like one of
these gun shows, then congratulations, felon terrorist domestic abuser or
certified insane person, no background check required. Here`s your gun.

It wasn`t until years after the Brady Bill took effect in May 1999 after the
Columbine massacre that Congress felt even compelled to try to fix that. It was
New Jersey Senator Frank Lautenberg who first introduced legislation to say that
even sales at gun shows should require a background check.

The Lautenberg bill passed the Senate in a nail-biter tie breaking vote by Vice
President Al Gore is how it passed. But in that year, 1999, it went on to die in
the House.

Since then, that loophole has remained. It`s survived lots of attempts to close
it. Right after the Sandy Hook shootings in new town, Connecticut, in 2012,
there was momentum from Democrats to revisit the issue once again, this time
from help with a handful of Republicans, but still it wasn`t enough.

Even now, immediately after the San Bernardino attacks, with even some
Republicans coming out once again to say they would support background checks
for all gun sales, the Senate once again this week failed to close that
loophole. But could there be another way?

"The New York Times" is now reporting that White House officials are looking to
ways to try to close at least most of the gun show loophole without Congress.
They think they may have a way to do it by President Obama alone.

A White House official telling "The New York Times," quote, "the work is very
much under way." Asked at a press briefing whether the president would wait
until the investigation into San Bernardino is over before he took any such
action, Press Secretary Josh Earnest today said no. He said the White House had
been working on trying to do this, trying to close this loophole since before
this week`s shooting anyway.

If that is the case, if they`re working on it, if they have a way to do it,
that, of course, is big news for the folks who have been trying to fix this
thing for almost two decades now. Will it work? How can it be done without
Congress?

Congress really is never going to do it. It`s never going to happen unless
President Obama does it, not unless the Republican Party somehow gets itself
surgically separated from its conjoined twin, which is called the NRA.

MADDOW: This is a story that would have been a huge deal this week had
everybody`s attention not been completely riveted on what happened in San
Bernardino. But this is also a southern California story.

This is the Aliso Canyon natural gas storage facility. It`s basically some old
oil wells now being repurposed to store natural gas underground.

The gas gets injected deep underground, thousands of people underground by big
compressors and the gas gets stored there in underground tanks until the company
wants to take it out again and send it to consumers through it network of
pipeline.

Something went wrong there in October. One storage well, 8,500 feet underground
started leaking, started leaking both natural gas and the additive that they put
in natural gas to give it in rotten egg smell so you know when you have a leak.

And the people of Porter Ranch, California, which is in southern California San
Fernando Valley, they live about a mile downwind of this natural gas storage
fields. And when it started leaking, they got a really big whip. And since then,
for weeks now, since October, the gas company has been trying to stop that leak
but it hasn`t worked.

The private utility that owns the storage well is called Southern California Gas
Company. And they say they think the leak is happening somewhere in the first
few hundred feet below ground, in a casing around a particular seven-inch pipe.
But even though they have this theory of what the problem is, their efforts to
fix this problem haven`t worked at all.

Their big idea was to fill that pipe with saltwater, basically as a cork so that
the gas could get up and while they were figuring out where the league was and
how to fix it. So far, they`ve tried their saltwater method six times and it has
failed six times.

Their next big idea was to try to kill the well altogether. You might remember
this idea from the BP disaster. You drill a new well, a new hole next to the
original hole and you intercept the leaky pipe somewhere below where it`s
leaking. You pump a bunch of cement in to plug the well.

So, that`s the new plan with this big natural gas leak as well. The only problem
is, if all goes perfectly, that sort of plan will take months, up to four
months. And for some residents of Porter ranch living with that the rotten egg
smell, that means four more months of headaches and nausea and nosebleeds and
respiratory problems.

And aside from this as a potential public health disaster, this is also a
budding environmental disaster because the primary component of natural gas is
methane, which is a particularly potent greenhouse gas. State air quality
regulators estimate the leak is releasing up to 50,000 kilograms of methane
every hour, and they say if that well keeps doing that at that rate, then
basically this leak will equal 25 percent of California`s daily greenhouse gags
emissions. Or another way to think of it, this is roughly the same effect as
driving 160,000 cars for a year.

Meanwhile, the gas company is footing the bill to temporarily relocate residents
from nearly 350 homes in the area. They may end up relocating hundreds of more
people before this is done.

The resident, not surprisingly, are gearing up far major legal fight here,
including a class action lawsuit. They`re suing not only the gas company but
state officials who they say have been negligent in allowing the leak to happen.
Attorneys for the residents say they want the gas company to stop injecting gas
into these underground wells for storage altogether. They want the state
officials to require the companies end this practice.

This week, L.A. County supervisors asked California Governor Jerry Brown to
intervene and use his executive authority to have state regulatory officials
take immediate action to figure out how to stop this leak. The company can`t do
it. Let the state come in and do it.

One thing it turns out we are great at in this country is drilling holes really,
really, really, really, really, really deep in the ground for oil and gas
purposes. One thing we`re not so great at is figuring out what to do with those
holes when things go wrong with them.

This leak is so big it`s a quarter of the greenhouse gas emissions for all the
state of California. Four months to fix it? Watch this space.

That does it for us tonight. We will see you again Monday.

Our live coverage continues now with my colleague Chris Jansing in San
Bernardino.

Good evening, Chris. It`s great to have you there.

THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE
UPDATED.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120401cb.471

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SHOW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript

                       Copyright 2015 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                           Copyright 2015 MSNBC MSNBC


                               23 of 24 DOCUMENTS


                                     MSNBC

                            December 4, 2015 Friday

            SHOW: THE LAST WORD WITH LAWRENCE O`DONNELL 10:00 PM EST

The Last Word for December 4, 2015

BYLINE: Chris Jansing

GUESTS: Saira Khan, Nizzam Ali, Mohamed Magid, Seamus Hughes, Jack Rise, Howard
Dean

SECTION: NEWS; Domestic

LENGTH: 7188  words



HIGHLIGHT: Live coverage from San Bernardino.


RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: That does it for us tonight. We will see you again
Monday. Our live coverage continues now with my colleague Chris Jansing in San
Bernardino. Good evening Chris, it`s great to have you there.

CHRIS JANSING, MSNBC HOST: Good evening Rochelle, thank you. And behind me in
San Bernardino is the inland regional center. That of course the site of
America`s latest mass shooting, 14 people lost their life at an office Christmas
Party on Wednesday morning. Now in the initial hours of the investigation it
seems as if we were looking at another instance of workplace violence. But today
a dramatic change in that investigation as a new clue surfaced, a message on
Facebook, a message from the female attacker. A messaged pledging allegiance to
ISIS.

Tonight we also got our first look at that female attacker, Tashfeen Malik, the
29-year-old was killed along with her husband, Syed Farook. In a shootout with
police hours after they sprayed as many as 75 rounds is were gathering of
Farook`s co-workers. Today FBI Director James Comey announced the San Bernardino
attack is now a federal terrorism investigation.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JAMES COMEY, FBI DIRECTOR: The investigation so far has developed indications of
radicalization by the killers, and of potential inspiration by foreign terrorist
organizations. So far we have no indication these killers are part of an
organized larger group or form a part of a cell. There`s no indication that they
are part of a network.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

JANSING: But how did a couple with a 6-month-old baby who were said to be living
the American dream become mass murders? I sat down for an in-depth interview
with Syed Farook`s sister Saira Khan to get some answers.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

What have these last few days been like?

SAIRA KHAN, SYED FAROOK`S SISTER: A bad dream, a horrific nightmare. I want to
go back to my normal life.

JANSING: How did you find out your brother was a part of this, that your
sister-in-law was a part of this?

KHAN: I found out on the news around 7:30, 8:00 on Wednesday when they announced
his name. Until then, I thought he was missing or caught up or maybe held up
somewhere.

JANSING: What comes to your mind?

KHAN: Shocked, disbelief. They have the wrong person. How could it be them? I
mean so many things.

JANSING: And now just today, the FBI said this is a terrorism investigation.
Which means your brother and his wife are considered terrorists. Can you wrap
your head around that?

KHAN: No, not at all. I mean, I have absolutely no idea they were involved in
anything like that. Or that they were even capable of doing something like this.

JANSING: Who were the people you know?

KHAN: I mean my brother that I grew up with, shy, introvert, kept to him self
quiet. You know, kid that (inaudible), they grew up and got married and his wife
was recently here, she was only here for two years. We didn`t really know her
that well. She came from Saudi. We`re barely starting to get to know her because
she was quiet and shy like him.

JANSING: When you say he was quiet, shy, and introvert, did he seem like someone
who was looking for something in his life?

KHAN: No. I mean before he got married, yeah, he was looking for a wife you
know. But after that he seemed happy with his life.

JANSING: And you didn`t really know much about her?

KHAN: No, I mean, I didn`t even know her last name. I just found out through
media.

JANSING: You didn`t even know her last name?

KHAN: No. No.

JANSING: didn`t that strike you as odd?

KHAN: No. Because I mean when you get married you usually change your last name
to whatever last name it`s going to be for the husband. So, I assumed that was
her last name. I didn`t know she hadn`t changed that.

JANSING: Did you ever see anything about him or her that would suggest to you
they could be radicalized?

KHAN: No, never.

JANSING: So tell me about their life, did you spend time at their home in
Redlands?

KHAN: No. Actually, we maybe went over like once a month to see their daughter.
So our kids could play together and to see my mom and visit her. And that`s the
extent of it. Say hi, hello, talk ant the kids, that`s it. I mean, there wasn`t
much we had in common her being raised somewhere else and me being raised here.

JANSING: But did your brother seem happy?

KHAN: Yeah, he was very happy with her.

JANSING: And the baby. This is the part a lot of people can`t quite understand.
How you can have a 6-month-old baby, drop the baby off with your mother, right?
And then go and perpetrate this horrific shooting spree.

KHAN: Right.

JANSING: What was their relationship like with their baby?

KHAN: It was great. They were great parents. I mean my brother used to play with
her for hours. She used to laugh as soon as he started entering the room. And
that`s the part that bugs us the most. Like who`s going to make her laugh now,
you know? She would smile every time she would see, you know, her mother. And
she was nursing her. So, I mean, that`s a big thing for a mom to leave a nursing
child.

JANSING: So what could have happened here? This must have occupied every waking
moment you`ve had since you found out. What happened?

KHAN: I don`t know. I wish I knew like what happened. I wish I could ask them,
you know, but they`re not here. And it`s just -- everything is left up to
speculation and investigation. And whatever we`re finding out through the media.

JANSING: What was their relationship like? I mean, obviously he grew up here,
she grew up there. Did they seem to have any -- did she seem to have a problem
adjusting?

KHAN: In the beginning actually she did because she didn`t speak English so she
had a little bit of trouble. But eventually she learned a little bit and then,
you know, we started communicating with her in our language. So, beside the
language barrier not so much, I mean, she seemed to be fine. She just likes
staying home a lot, you know?

JANSING: Traditional wife, you would say?

KHAN: Yeah, pretty much, you know, stay at home, take care of the baby. I mean
for the majority of the marriage, she was pregnant for nine months. So she was
not feeling well, she was on bedrest.

JANSING: And did she have a job or a career? Do you know? Because apparently
there have been reports they was trained as a pharmacist.

KHAN: What I know is that she was -- she had a degree in pharmacy.

JANSING: OK.

KHAN: From where, I don`t know about either. But as trained as a pharmacist, I
don`t have knowledge on that.

JANSING: So when you would watch them as a family, nothing ever set off any kind
of alarm bells? No signals that something was amiss?

KHAN: No. Just like his co-workers. I mean, we knew him and there was nothing
that would say alarming bells and, "Hey, look, there`s something wrong with me."
You know?

JANSING: It seems from what we hear from investigators now, from what we`ve seen
coming from that house they had not only a large number of weapons and
ammunition but a virtual bomb factory. Are you shocked to hear that?

KHAN: Yes, of course.

JANSING: Did you know that he had guns?

KHAN: I know that he had a gun. It was a handgun. It was kept in a lock box.
And, you know, I asked him why do you have it? And he was like, "Oh I need it
for protection." And that`s the only one that I was aware of.

JANSING: Do you know if he knew how to use it? Did he get any training?

KHAN: He said the gun he -- the gun was licensed. Besides that, I don`t know if
he got training or what other...

JANSING: He went to a shooting range?

KHAN: Yeah, I don`t know about that either.

JANSING: Did he ever talk to you about the time he went to Saudi Arabia?

KHAN: He went to Saudi Arabia for Haj, but thousands of Muslims do that. My
parents went with him too.

JANSING: So it was nothing again out of the ordinary?

KHAN: No, he went to Haj and they stayed with him every minute and he came back
with the time allotted.

JANSING: And then when he went to meet his wife. Was he excited? Was there a lot
of anticipation? You said that was the one thing that seemed to...

KHAN: Once again, he`s such a quiet and shy person to us from the outside he
looked normal. We even joked about it and said they should be excited about it.

JANSING: And he wasn`t?

KHAN: He didn`t look like it, but then again, he is the type of person that, you
know, you could never read. He was always quiet, kept to himself. Same
expression, smile occasional here and there. So, it`s kind of kind of hard to
guess what a person is think, you know?

JANSING: And he was always like that?

KHAN: He was always like that.

JANSING: Would you consider yourself close though?

KHAN: Since he kept to himself, not really.

JANSING: So what was your relationship like? And how did he fit into your
family?

KHAN: We met once a month, had our kids come over, play and that`s to the extent
of it. I mean, we didn`t have conversations on the phone. We didn`t really spend
a lot of time talking about stuff. And I felt like I grew distant from him
because I got married and I moved away.

JANSING: And what about his relationship with your mom?

KHAN: Like what about the relationship?

JANSING: Normal? Were they close? Was she particularly excited about the baby?

KHAN: Yeah, she is. She`s actually very torn about the baby, because the baby is
the thing that`s the most important to her. She spends so much with time with
her grandchild and she`s distraught and we don`t have her with us. And, you
know, we don`t know when we`re going to get her. So, that obviously bugs her.

JANSING: Do you know what the status is? What`s going to happen with the baby?

KHAN: At moment, no.

JANSING: There was the other big thing that came out is that your sister- in-law
posted on Facebook about the same time as all of this started an allegiance to
ISIS. And there been some suggestion that maybe she was in some way influencing
your brother.

KHAN: And that`s news to us too because we didn`t know she had any kind of
relations with ISIS or anything like that. Like if you met her, she was like the
girl next door, you know? The sweet, innocent, kind. The kind that is always
smiling, you know, nice to you. You would never ever guess that that girl would
have ties to ISIS.

JANSING: Did she ever express any unhappiness or did you ever have any
conversations about being Muslim in America, or terrorism? Or did you talk about
the Paris attacks?

KHAN: No, actually not at all. I mean, being a housewife you don`t talk about
Paris attacks and this and that in front of your kids, to be honest. Political
views and agenda is not something we discuss in front of our kids. It`s --
mostly things we discuss is kids related, you know, toys, books, kids, diapers,
this and that. And that`s all mainly we talked about.

JANSING: So how did she take to becoming a mom?

KHAN: She was very happy. She was very content. She, you know, like I said, she
nursed her. She used to dress her up, she used to, you know, spend hours with
her, taking care of her and that was like pretty much you could say her job.

JANSING: So the idea that she and your brother could take that baby, drop off
the baby knowing that they would never come back?

KHAN: It`s mind boggling. I mean, I can`t imagine. I was telling my husband that
I could never leave my kids anywhere for a couple of hours much less, you know,
think about something like this. I don`t know what prompted them to do something
like this.

JANSING: Do you think she could have influenced him to the extent to radicalize?

KHAN: I want to believe, yes, because I want to believe my brother is not
capable of doing like this. But then again I don`t know her that well to know
what ties she had, what her past was. We don`t know much about that. Where she
comes from, who she was linked to. You know, all of that is coming out in the
news now. It`s news to us.

JANSING: Did you ever asked her about growing up or what her life was like
there?

KHAN: She hardly said much about her life. She said, you know, I grew up in big
siblings, we grew up in a home together, we`re a happy family and, you know,
that`s pretty much all I know.

JANSING: She said they were a happy family?

KHAN: Yeah.

JANSING: Do you wonder if she came here, as some people have speculated now,
specifically for this reason? She was looking for a way to come into the United
States?

KHAN: Now that you`ve said that, I haven`t heard that, but yeah, it`s possible.

JANSING: Would you describe them as devout Muslims? Did they -- I know your
brother practiced.

How much time?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: five minutes.

KHAN: I can hear my daughter.

JANSING: Do you want to take a break.

KHAN: No it`s okay. I`m sorry, what was the question again?

JANSING: Would you describe them as devout Muslims?

KHAN: They were Muslims, you know, they followed and practiced Islam as we all
do. They prayed five times a day, they read the Koran. They fasted in the month
of Ramadan. They already did their Haj which is a big thing as a Muslim. So
yeah, they were like any other Muslim.

JANSING: Was he happy, do you think, in general? I mean, obviously they made a
decision to go to his work place. Did he like his job?

KHAN: He didn`t really talk much about his job. Whenever we asked him, he would
say "Oh, it`s work, it`s all really mean, you know, (ph) about his job.

JANSING: You never met any of his friends or he never talked about his friends.

KHAN: Co-worker, not at all.

JANSING: So he never described or there was someone who teased him about his
beard?

KHAN: No.

JANSING: There was also these reports of a possible confrontation with one of
his Jewish colleagues. Got into a fight about Islam.

KHAN: I read about that on the news. I had no idea.

JANSING: Is he someone who you would think would try to defend Islam or does he
ever show any kind of temper as somebody who would get into even a verbal
confrontation?

KHAN: He never had a temper. And as far as talking about Islam, I did meet and
see him talking to neighbors, of people like that about Islam but as always in a
very polite manner. He never lost his temper or got angry about anything which
is -- that`s why it`s so shocking that he would do something like this.

JANSING: What do you think happened here?

KHAN: I don`t even know how to answer. To be honest, quite frankly, we haven`t
even had the time to process what`s happened. You know, it`s like its one thing
after another. We`re hearing things about us. There`s so much about us on the
news now. My kids faces are all over the place. You know, there`s so many -- and
then things that we have to deal with as the time is going (ph) on. We haven`t
even had a chance to sit down and talk about why he did it, what happened.

What went through their mind? And then we have this thing about their daughter,
you know?

JANSING: A very big thing. 6-month-old child.

KHAN: Right.

JANSING: So what made you want to talk to me today? What did you want to say?

KHAN: Mainly, whenever something like this happens, there`s a big backlash that
happens on all Muslims, you know. And I just want to say that not all of us are
like this. You know? We`re not all, you know, terrorists. We`re all normal
people. And there`s always someone who does something like this for whatever
reason. It`s not something that should have a negative impact on everybody else
out there.

JANSING: Are you afraid?

KHAN: I think I should be.

JANSING: And as far as your brother, are you grieving? Are you in shock? Are you
angry with him?

KHAN: I`m angry with him and I`m shocked.

JANSING: What would you want people to know about you, about him, about your
sister-in-law. What do you think is missing in all this reporting that`s been
done?

KHAN: I think everything is pretty much covered. I mean, our side is being
heard, we`re being told about things about them that we didn`t know. And our
side is being -- I think there`s too much out there for me to say anything else.

JANSING: Let me ask you finally, have you cried about this? Have you held your
children close, have you even begun to know what your emotions are?

KHAN: I wish I could cry about it. But, you have to keep it together for my
kids. For my daughter, for my mother.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

JANSING: My conversation with Saira Khan. And when we come back, I`m going to
speak with Nizzam Ali who is here with me. And Nizzam attended the same mosque
as Syed Farook and Tashfeen Malik. We`ll be right back.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

KHAN: He`s was the type of person you could never read, you know. He was quiet,
kept to himself, same expression, smile occasionally here and there. So, it`s
kind of hard to guess what the person is thinking, you know.

JANSING: And he was always like that?

KHAN: He was always like that.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

JANSING: And joining us now is Nizzam Ali who knew Syed Farook, one of the
suspects in Wednesday`s mass shooting. They attended the same mosque in San
Bernardino. Thanks so much for being here. We played the clip and his sister
said his whole life he was so hard to read. And that`s obviously part of the
reason that she`s in such shock. Did you find him to be that way?

NIZZAM ALI, ATTENDING SAME MOSQUE AS FAROOK: Absolutely. He was, like I said
before, you know, in other interviews, he was very reserved. He was not a person
that would, you know, come in and start a conversation with you. He was a more
shy person. But once you talked to him, he would talk. But it was very limited,
you know, he wouldn`t talk about everything you know. My interactions with him
were limited.

JANSING: We tried to get a window into who these people are, this couple is.
What would you talk about?

ALI: Me, I would talk about what I knew of him, which was that he was a great
guy, he was a nice guy to be around. So today in the community we`re talking
about all the great things I remember him for, you know, his personality, his
characteristics. You know, all of the nice things that he -- I mean, he was a
good asset to our community. But...

JANSING: In what way?

ALI: In the sense that he was representing the Muslims, you know, being
cheerful, being someone that was honest, being someone that was, you know, a
typical Muslim.

JANSING: And you went to his wedding reception or at least the celebration?

ALI: I was the one that cooked the food for his wedding reception.

JANSING: And what was that like because, one of the things that also struck me
about what Saira Khan said was that he wasn`t really excited about going to get
married, even though that`s something he very much wanted.

ALI: Right, I`m not sure -- I mean I met him right before he had gotten married
and he had just told me I`m getting married. I said well congrats to you. You
know, let me know if you need any assistance. And when he came back to me he
said hey, do you mind cooking and, you know, doing something with me for the
community. I said no problem, let`s get this stuff and let`s cook.

JANSING: Did he seem happy to be married?

ALI: Yes (ph).

JANSING: And what about having a child?

ALI: Yeah, as far as I know, because I remember as I mentioned in some of the
other interviews, I remember that at that time he was telling me about going
back to school and pursuing his master`s degree. I don`t remember in what, but I
do remember him mentioning I`m going to go back and do my master`s degree. So
for me this, you know, that he -- this to me meant that he had some perception
in life, some good understanding of where he`s going. He had a plan. You know?

JANSING: Plan for his future.

ALI: For his family, for his family, for his daughter.

JANSING: Did he put it in the context of I want to have a better life for my
family, for my daughter?

ALI: He didn`t say, you know, with this son but just from him saying that and
also, you know, he memorized the Koran six months back, so that was also, you
know, something that we congratulated him on. And he was very secretive about
that as well. He didn`t openly tell us that. So...

JANSING: One of the things that we learned today was about this Facebook message
that his wife posted, pledging allegiance to ISIS. And I guess the question is,
is it possible that she could have convinced him to be part of some plot?

ALI: I can`t say. I never met the wife. I didn`t know the wife. I didn`t know
anything about her. So I can`t say honestly.

JANSING: What is it that -- can you sort of try to even imagine what could have
brought him to be radicalized, to do something like this?

ALI: Absolutely not. I mean that`s the shocker for the entire community that
knew him. And they did know him. So here we just heard his sister also saying
about the quality, the same thing, that he was very nice, he was very gentle, he
was very kind. He was not someone that showed aggression and things of that
nature. So, to know that and to see what we see behind us here, this is -- I
mean there`s no words. It`s devastating. I don`t have words to explain, to
express what type of feeling I have that, you know, what type of impact it`s
going to have upon the Muslim community.

You know, as I mentioned before this is my community. I was born and raised here
in San Bernardino. So it affects me greatly, you know, that -- and she mentioned
also, his sister mentioned also about backlashes from the community and that`s
what we fear that, you know, we want the community to know here, and the nation
to know, that we are American citizens, we mourn, we share our condolences. We
give our condolences to those who have lost - - the families that have, you
know, family members and stuff that lost their lives, and the victims and also
to those that are injured.

And, I mean we can`t say that enough that we`re mourning with the nation. This
is a time of mourning. This is not a time of, you know, anything else but
mourning.

JANSING: Nizzam Ali, thank you very much, we do appreciate that. Also joining us
now is Imam Mohamed Magid, the Executive Director of the All Dulles Area Muslim
Society, second largest mosque in America. He also works to help counter violent
extremism. It`s good to talk to you again, Imam. Thank you very much. And, if
you heard the interview you heard Saira, the sister talking about, she was
concerned about a backlash and she wanted to send the message that not all
Muslims are terrorists.

What did you think when you heard what happened here?

IMAM MOHAMED MAGID, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, ADAMS: It is very disturbing. Make all
of us very angry, very sad to see a person will would commit such a crime.
Especially if he thought that this act is being done in the name of religion, in
the name of Islam. Also my heart goes to the family and this sister that she`s
shocked like anyone else about the behavior. And that shows that the virtual
community, the internet recruitment is impacting someone like him to get
radicalized and willing to do such heinous crime by taking the life of innocent
people.

JANSING: This is one of the things that I know you have worked on at your mosque
and have worked with other mosque about trying to counter this radicalization.
Help us to understand how this happened, how this recruitment happens and what
you`re doing to fight it?

MAGID: Recruitment happen online by having ISIS to disconnect the person from
their family first. To have them not trust anyone close to them. And to cut them
off also from religious authority to make sure they don`t listen to anyone
except to their religious figures and leaders, and also to have them have this
feeling of us versus them. Unfortunately there`s a psychological aspect of this
recruitment that sometimes we`re not addressing, and the aspect of feeling a
sense of purpose.

A person gets to believe that ISIS offer a narrative of restoring dignity and
giving honor and fighting for justice. Which is all of these slogans of ISIS as
all of them are false. Slogans that give people a sense of purpose that they
destructive, therefore what we did, we brought law enforcement to our mosque and
invited others in the issue of the internet safety.

JANSING: Imam Mohamed Magid, thank you so much for being with us and for the
work I know you`re sharing with others.

And coming up, terrorism in America. What federal officials can do to try to
keep us safe from another attack?

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MANDY PIFER: ... was my best friend. And he was -- so many young people, such
fried. And was an incredible person, his family is in Georgia, his family here,
we were just all so sick of seeing families get hurt by a senseless violence.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

JANSING: FBI Director James Comey says hundreds of agents around the world are
spending a tremendous amount of time working to understand Syed Farook and
Tashfeeen Malik`s motive as well as every detail of their life.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

COMEY: We are going through a very large volume of electronic evidence, these
electronic evidence that these killers tried to destroy and tried to conceal
from us that we now have and are exploiting to try and understand them. There is
much about this that doesn`t make sense to even -- for even those of us who this
for a living, that is the reason we have hundreds of people running down leads
all over the world on this and spending tremendous amounts of time as we sit
here trying to understand the electronic record around these two killers.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

JANSING: Joining us now is Seamus Hughes, the Deputy Director on the Program on
Extremism at George Washington University Center for Cyber & Homeland Security,
and Jack Rise, the terrorism expert and former CIA special agent. Thanks to both
of you for being here tonight.

Jack, investigators seem to be befuddled in many ways and we heard the Director
Comey say twice, there`s so much that they don`t really understand. Have you
seen a case like this before?

JACK RISE, TERRORISM EXPERT: Well, we have and I think what makes this difficult
though is we`re still trying to get all of the information together. And what
we`re seeing is this radicalization that`s tied to the internet. So you have
social media that crosses so many different places, we have to deal with
Pakistan, you have to deal with Saudi Arabia and some of the other connections
that may include al-Shabaab.

You start looking at so many different places to try to find a motivation. But
to try to find a line that would have been the recruitment line is just so
difficult to do right now. And that`s what they`re struggling with.

JANSING: And you have co-authored a study Seamus called, "ISIS in America: From
Retweets to raqqa." And, according to your study there have been 900 active
investigations against homegrown violent extremist, in all 50 states so far this
year 56 people have been arrested in 21 states. Is there any commonality here,
is there anything that might have been a clue in this case here in San
Bernardino?

SEAMUS HUGHES, CENTER FOR CYBER & HOMELAND SECURITY: That`s the biggest takeaway
from the report, there is -- not necessarily a profile. We`ve seen -- we looked
at through 7,000 pages of legal documents to take a look at, you know, what
makes these people tick, you know, what demographics there are. We`ve seen male,
we`ve seen female, we`ve seen old, young, rich and poor. They tend to be younger
though. So the average age of the people we looked at was 26. In one-third of
the cases they`re 21 years or younger.

JANSING: Your study also revealed in those 7,000 pages of documents, again, as
you said, sort of how different so many of them are. And that`s part of what I
think frightens a lot of people. That they were sort of hiding in plain sight. I
mean, how many of these cases were there what seemed like clear warnings.

HUGHES: When you look at all of the cases you see -- in general, the vast
majority, there`s a bystander that sees something, whether it`s a friend or a
family member. They see something is a little bit off but they don`t recognize
what they`re seeing, and they don`t have the tools to be able to talk to law
enforcement and alert them. Right now, the only option a family member has, if
they have a loved one they`re concerned about is to do nothing and hope it`s
just a phase, or to call the FBI and potentially talk to their loved ones
through a prison bar for 20 years. We need to find a middle way that safety that
in-between to intervene with people and bring them back into the fold.

JANSING: And in fact earlier today, the FBI`s Los Angeles Assistant Director in
Charge David Bowdich explained how the suspects tried to cover their tracks.
Here`s what he said.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DAVID BOWDICH, FBI LA ASST. DIRECTOR IN CHARGE: They attempted to destroy their
digital finger prints. For example, we found two cell phones in a nearby trash
can. Those cell phones were actually crushed. We have retained those cell phones
and we do continue to exploit the data from those cell phones. We do hope that
the digital fingerprints left by these two individuals will take us towards
their motivation.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

JANSING: So Jack obviously that`s a key here, what made them do this. And, is
there any sense of how badly damaged some of that equipment is? How good is the
technology for covering it, and in the grand scheme of figuring this out, how
important could that digital fingerprint be?

RISE: Oh I think it can be huge in this case, because what we have the ability
to do now is to reach out and look for connections to see where they found what
they found. And where they found how to build the bombs that they did, to deal
with the mechanisms that they did and where did they find that. If there was a
connection to somebody who was involved in a recruitment issue then we
potentially may find that.

I might want to add something to this -- to the last guest referenced, what I`ve
seen in the twin cities in Minnesota is al-Shabaab has been incredibly
successful in convincing young men primarily from about the ages of about 19 to
28 to actually go back and fight in the horn of Africa. And we`ve even seen some
of those reaching back towards ISIS as well.

And so there is a demographic that one can look at. But I think what`s most
important in what we have seen at least in this area of the country is the
ability to find those who feel lost, disaffected, and what we have found is
organizations like al-Shabaab and ISIS are targeting them and using their
justification to motivate these young men to do the things that they do.

JANSING: Jack, Seamus, stay with me, we have much more to talk about. We`ll be
right back.

Seamus Hughes and Jack Rice are back with us as we continue the conversation
about terror, radicalization, how we stop homegrown terrorists. And, I want to
look at that specifically Jack, because it is so hard to track these homegrown
ISIS-inspired plots, terror plots much more investigators say than a traditional
terrorists plot. Why and how is this type of investigation different?

RISE: Well, in this particular case, what makes it difficult is that if there is
a direct recruitment line, if you can find somebody in ISIS or in the past
al-Qaeda or al-Shabaab, Boko Haram that was actually trying to recruit somebody
directly and you could follow that line, you can figure out who they`re trying
to recruit and the person who actually did the recruiting. The problem in this
case potentially is we may have simply -- he`s simply inspired by the rhetoric
being inspired by ISIS.

If that happens there`s no way to make a determination before they act that
they`re going to act. And this is all about trying to get in front of an attack,
in front of a terrorist operation. You can`t do that in this case. This concept
of a lone wolf, or in this case lone wolves, is something that`s very difficult
to stop. And that`s what we`re really talking about right now.

JANSING: Yeah, and Seamus, one of the things that we hear so often, we even
heard it from the (inaudible) is how sophisticated ISIS and other groups have
gotten on social media and online. How they`re able to keep up sort of this
relationship that they find with a potential recruit, 24/7. If they get up in
the middle of the night and they want to go online, there is someone there who
is willing essentially to talk to them. And as quickly as they can put out a
business of social media site, another one goes up. How key is all of these as
we like at this kind of event?

HUGHES: Right. So the problem on extremism, over six-month period we looked at
300 people we believe to be Americans on social media that were ISIS supporters.
The primary platform of choice is Twitter. And so what we saw is essentially an
echo chamber. A place where there`s, you know, inside jokes and means (ph) and
everyone kind of known each other, an online community and they`re able to
communicate and that type of way. Essentially reinforce their own believes.

JANSING: And there are so many questions there yet unanswered here. For example,
the most obvious is the motive. But beyond that, did one person inspire the
other? And I wondering Jack, as you look at the facts on the ground as they are,
what do you make of some of these suspicions that potentially she was the one
who either was first recruited or maybe while she was still in Saudi Arabia or
Pakistan was radicalized and came here specifically for this reason. How do we
get at that?

RICE: What makes this so difficult, and they`re great questions, is you take a
look at him first. I mean, he was born in the U.S., college graduate, good job,
successful. Objectively, one would say well wait a second why would that be?
That doesn`t necessarily mean he wasn`t the one radicalized, lets be clear. But
at the same time we look at her, born in Pakistan, moves to Saudi Arabia living
in a part of Saudi Arabia that`s actually pretty radicalized itself, and then
going back to Pakistan, another place that`s also quite radicalized.

Where Wahhabism was big in Saudi, what we`ve seen in the parts of Pakistan, you
add all of those together, my inclination is to lean towards her simply because
of her connections, but again, it`s very difficult to make the determination at
this point. A lot of the social media is going to make the difference. I think
following those issues is critical in this case, to see who was driving home.

JANSING: And Seamus as you look at this beyond the obvious question of motive,
what`s the key question you want answered here?

HUGHES: The key question is the link to ISIS. Was it inspired or was it
directed? And I think the facts will still run out on that. In terms of social
media, I think it`s important to circle back on it. We see it in a threefold
way. The first way is they essentially groom recruits online. They`re egging
people on that are trying to understand their faith. And ISIS is trying to fill
that void.

The second way they do that is essentially logistical support. So they`re doing
is providing numbers and recruiters that you can reach out to on Twitter to be
able to cross the border in Turkey into Syria.

The third way and I think this is the most important one when we saw is in the
Garland attack, is there`s a devil in the shoulder, with the FBI Director --
term used that. So you`re essentially you`re egging people onto attack. Time
will tell whether this was directed or inspired, but we`ll see what the role of
social media on this and whether it played a direct role in terms of inspiring
her to act.

JANSING: Seamus Hughes, Jack Rice, thanks to both of you for your expertise
tonight.

Coming up, it`s not just politicians talking about religion and gun. Up next,
one of the attorneys for the Farook had to say today.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

COMEY: We know this is very unsettling for the people of the United States. What
we hope you will do is not let fear become disabling, but to instead try to
channel it into an awareness of your surroundings, to get to a place where you
are living your life, but if you see something that doesn`t make sense, you say
something to somebody.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

JANSING: That was FBI Director James Comey today commenting on the terror
investigation of the San Bernardino shooting and how the public should respond.

This afternoon, one of the attorneys for Farook family David Chesley also spoke
about how the public should respond.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DAVID CHESLEY, FAROOK FAMILY ATTORNEY: I think we need to avoid bigotry,
stereotyping, anything that we would be uncomfortable happening to us as
Christians, we should try to avoid doing that to Muslims as well.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

JANSING: That same family attorney blamed the 2016 presidential candidates for
creating an atmosphere of prejudice and fear.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CHESLEY: Political candidates that could very likely be our next president, who
are saying things like we should register all Muslims and that mosques should be
investigated and looked into or that the families of terrorists should be killed
without due process, we just have to be protective of religious freedom in our
country.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

JANSING: Let`s break down the political response to the shooting. Joining me now
is Howard Dean, former governor of Vermont, former Chairman of the Democratic
National Committee and an MSNBC political analyst. It`s always good to see you,
and unfortunately we always seem to have this conversation after there`s been a
mass shooting.

I want to play what President Obama said yesterday and Donald Trump said today
on gun control.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, U.S. PRESIDENT: We`re going to have to search ourselves as a
society to make sure that we can take basic steps that would make it harder, not
impossible but harder for individuals to get access to weapons.

DONALD TRUMP, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: If the people in Paris or the people
in California, if you had a couple of folks in there with guns and that knew how
to use them and they were in that room, you wouldn`t have dead people, the dead
people would be the other guys.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

JANSING: I wondered Howard, you`ve been around for a while, what do you make of
the political divide on this issue. Has it ever been bigger?

HOWARD DEAN, FMR. DNC CHAIRMAN: I think the political divide is just part of the
partisanship. And the country is divided. There`s not a lot of common sense from
what Donald Trump just said. I don`t think anybody is trying to take away
everybody`s guns. But I do think -- I was endorsed by the NRA eight times when I
ran for various statewide offices.

And, none of the NRA members up here thinking, that means you have to have a
bazooka in your front yard to shoot a dear. So it seems to me that you can at
least minimize the number of people that are killed in these instances if you
went back to the semiautomatic ban. There`s no need for semiautomatics.

I mean, you could say, OK, Donald Trump, let`s have people with happened guns so
they could shoot the terrorists, all right? But if the terrorists have
Kalashnikovs, they`re going to kill a lot of people. So this is -- there`s some
middle ground here that make sense and we`re not hearing any of that from the
Republican presidential candidates because they`re terrified of the National
Rifle Association.

JANSING: Well, is that all that`s going on here though? I mean isn`t there an
element frankly for the 2016 candidates at their base. And, for some of them it
is what has been going on for a long time, which is the second amendment issue.
For others, is it a fear, and an understandable fear that some people feel?

DEAN: Well look, the Republicans are catering to their base. And there is a
reasonable middle ground they`re not interested in talking about. I think
they`re going to get in trouble. Leadership is not catering to your base
leadership is doing what`s right for the country. And it`s not getting -- as Mr.
Chesley said, people angry and terrified. That is not what good leadership and I
think that`s going to be reflected in the final vote in November.

JANSING: And what about the on the Democratic side? Obviously, and you talked a
lot about this, after the shootings in Paris, the questions about whether
President Obama spoke forcefully enough. And this case we haven`t seen much, he
made a brief statement. Where should the President be, what does he need to be
doing that he`s not, or do you think that in many ways he`s fighting a battle
that at least in the next year in this political climate simply can`t be won?

DEAN: Well, I actually think it does make sense to speak out on the issue. And I
think the President should be the one to do it because he`s the leader of the
country, theirs is a middle ground, there is a place where most Americans are --
or the NRA and there`s Republicans are not. Most people do not believe that the
Average American needs a semiautomatic to keep their family safe or to shooting
deer.

Most Americans do not want to ban guns. They think they ought to have a right to
own a gun, there`s a middle ground there that make sense. I saw Director Comey
talk about how we`re going to follow these people on ISIS. We need to have --
there`s some other things that we need besides gun control. We need to have an
FBI that proactively goes into the dark network where these guys are and goes
and gets them, and hunts them down. And we got to criminalize what these folks
are doing. If they`re getting people to shoot up large numbers of people, that
ought to be a criminal offense and we got to be able to get those people
proactively.

JANSING: Howard Dean, it`s always good to see you. Thanks for coming out on a
Friday night. Appreciate it.

After this break, my final thoughts on violence in America and what happened in
San Bernardino.

JANSING: Late today, I walked into the house of a woman whose brother is a mass
murderer. It was chilling and normal, a normal kitchen, a child upstairs crying.
In the blink of an eye, normal life, everyday of going to work and laughing with
friends and taking care of a sick kid obliterated with the sounds of gun fire. I
saw it first in 1999 at Columbine High School, and the anguished face of a
father whose son was shot at close range. 13 years ago I saw him (ph) again, we
were outside a movie theater in a rural Colorado where more innocent lives were
stolen.

In between I can vividly see that parking lot where Gabby Gifford was talking to
constituents in 2011. Blood staining the pavement. And I remember all too well
the tears of a priest in Newtown whose one parish alone would bury eight
children, 6 and 7-years old. Truth to be told, I cried with them.

And the night a gunman open fired on a bible study group in Charleston, I talked
to a young man in shock, his aunt and his cousin were in that room. But you
don`t have to be in those places to feel the loss, to ache with the fear that
some piece of our humanity, our sense of security has been stolen. I came here
from Paris. They share our pain as we do theirs. What`s remarkable though is
that time and again the victim`s family, friends and community have not just
reclaimed what the murders and the terrorist have taken from us but have
answered it. That`s also what I`ve seen, people flocking to makeshift memorial,
the candles lit, the prayers said, the stuffed animals left around the Christmas
tree in downtown Newtown. Scholarships started, foundations too. Parents who now
dedicate their lives to honor their children, undaunted in their fight for
stronger gun laws. You don`t have to be in these places to know good can come of
evil, and healing follows those good acts, big and small. From San Bernardino,
good night.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120401cb.474

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SHOW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript

                       Copyright 2015 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              Copyright 2015 MSNBC


                               24 of 24 DOCUMENTS


                                     MSNBC

                           December 5, 2015 Saturday

                    SHOW: MELISSA HARRIS-PERRY 10:00 AM EST

MELISSA HARRIS-PERRY for December 5, 2015

BYLINE: Melissa Harris-Perry, Chris Jansing, Dorian Warren, Jack Jacobs

GUESTS: Malcolm Nance, Katharine Rhodes Henderson, Yolanda Pierce, Eugene
O`Donnell, Russell Brandom, Ronal Serpas, Jonathan Metzl, Linda Sarsour,

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 14674  words



HIGHLIGHT: What qualifies as accountability? Plus, the Secretary of Defense
tells Congress we`re at war. And the good news that you may have missed this
week. But first, the latest on the shootings in San Bernardino. The FBI is now
investigating the mass shooting in San Bernardino, California, as an act of
terrorism. "Reuters" is reporting that ISIS said in an online radio broadcast
that followers of the group carried out the attacks in San Bernardino that
killed 14 people. Officials say one of the San Bernardino suspects, Tashfeen
Malik, pledged allegiance to ISIS in a Facebook post in about the same time she
and her husband Syed Farook launched their attack.


MELISSA HARRIS-PERRY, MSNBC ANCHOR: This morning, my question, what qualifies as
accountability? Plus, the Secretary of Defense tells Congress we`re at war. And
the good news that you may have missed this week. But first, the latest on the
shootings in San Bernardino.

Good morning. I`m Melissa Harris-Perry. We want to bring you the latest this
morning on the shooting Wednesday in San Bernardino, California, that left 14
people dead and 21 more wounded. This morning, the Islamic State or ISIS said in
a radio broadcast that two of its followers carried out the attacks, according
to Reuters. Now, the terrorist organization did not claim that it directed the
attack. And U.S. officials say there`s no evidence that they did so.

The attackers, Syed Farook and Tashfeen Malik, were killed Wednesday in a
shootout with police, hours after they opened fire during office holiday party.
Yesterday, the FBI assistant director in Los Angeles who is leading the
investigation there announced that the FBI is now investigating the shooting as
an act of terror.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DAVID BOWDICH, FBI LOS ANGELES: As of today, based on the information and the
facts as we know them, we are now investigating these horrific acts as an act of
terrorism.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HARRIS-PERRY: The director of the FBI, James Comey, elaborated on on the
possible terror connections in the case.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JAMES COMEY, FBI DIRECTOR: The investigation so far has developed indications of
radicalization by the killers and of a potential inspiration by foreign
terrorist organizations. So far, we have no indication that these killers are
part of an organized larger group or form part of a cell. There`s no indication
that they are part of a network.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HARRIS-PERRY: Comey also said the suspects, a married couple, had not been on
the FBI`s radar as potential threats before the attack. Law enforcement sources
told NBC News that one of the suspects, Malik, posted an oath of allegiance on
the Islamic State on Facebook just before the shooting.

Joining us now for the very latest is NBC`s Chris Jansing. Chris, where is the
investigation at this point?

CHRIS JANSING, NBC CORRESPONDENT: Well, I think this is a very hard focus on the
electronic evidence. One of the things we heard yesterday, Melissa, from
Director Comey is they have a large volume of it. Cell phones and computers, but
also that the couple tried to destroy them. Two of those cell phones were found
smashed and in a nearby garbage can. And so, they have flown those to Quantico,
Virginia. The FBI has highly sophisticated labs including the operational
technology division that has a number of subunits. And that is their complete
area of expertise. Each of them who are focused on retrieving evidence from
these kinds of situations. It`s not uncommon in any kind of investigation that
someone tries to destroy anything that might be part of a digital footprint.
They also have something called the computer analysis lab. Then there they will
look very specifically at what can they extract. Were there photos on there that
might provide some clues? GPS coordinates obviously could be very important to
where they may have traveled. Does that lead them either to people or places
where they got some of the equipment that we know now was now inside their home
that looked like a virtual bomb factory.

Any kind of records that would give them an indication of how this came
together. All of it leading to the one big question that they just don`t have an
answer to, which is motive. This is a couple that seemed to be leading
essentially a double life. We haven`t found anyone who seems to have any
inclination to suggest that they were in any way unhappy, in any way could have
been radicalized or were doing anything but living the American dream here. And
yesterday, when I talked to the husband`s sister, she clearly was in a state of
shock, talking about a couple who was celebrating the fact that they had a
6-month-old baby, how he would play with that baby for hours at a time. And then
you also have these questions about the disconnect between what they clearly did
in this building behind me and what happened in the days leading up to it. There
was a scare yesterday at a local UPS facility because there was a package
addressed to them. It turned out that there were clothes in it that they had
ordered online. Do you order clothes online if you are planning to commit a
terrorist attack like this? A lot of things that just don`t make sense. One of
the ways that the director put it, a lot of evidence in this case that doesn`t
quite make sense. And so, they really are just in the early stages of this. But
hundreds of investigators literally all around the world, Melissa, who are
looking into this motive and what really happened here.

HARRIS-PERRY: Thank you, to Chris Jansing in San Bernardino, California.

It took about 48 hours after Wednesday`s shooting for the FBI to declare that it
is investigating the shooting of an act of terrorism. Authorities previously
were unsure, saying the shooting may have been a terror-related or could have
been motivated by something more mundane, namely a workplace dispute. One of the
shooters Syed Farook, had for years worked with the county health department. It
was the department holiday party where Farook and his wife Malik opened fire and
killed 14 people. But as the investigation continued, the FBI increasingly
suspected terrorism.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BOWDICH: There`s a number of pieces of evidence that has essentially pushed us
off the cliff to say we`re now investigating this as an act of terrorism.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HARRIS-PERRY: Joining me now is Malcolm Nance, executive director of the Terror
Assymetrics Project and author of the upcoming back, "Defeating ISIS: Who They
Are, How They Fight and What They Believe." Malcolm, obviously, we heard from
Chris there that there`s confusion here. That there seem to be things that don`t
add up. You`ve been doing this work for a long time. What are you seeing?

MALCOLM NANCE, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, ASSYMETRICS PROJECT: There are many things
about this story that don`t add up. Let`s walk it back to the initial attack. If
these people were radicalized, and clearly they were in some way, shape or form,
they had tactical equipment, they had very long high caliber weapons. They had a
bomb laboratory and bomb factory inside their garage. They went to this party,
they carried out this massacre. Which would make you ask initial question, those
of us media, intelligence, community - why wouldn`t they have gone to a bigger
target, a better target? Why would they have such a personally focused target?
So that`s question number one. Question number two is most people who do this
sort of thing, they will carry out an attack and they generally won`t leave a
six-month-old baby behind. We`ve seen it in Nigeria, Boca Haram, they killed
their family before attacks in order to meet them in heaven soon afterwards.
I`ve seen it in Iraq, people actually use their baby as a bomb. But we`ve never
seen one where they just hand the baby off to the mother, say, I`m going out to
the doctor, and then carry out at terrorist attack. So, it`s a hybrid. It`s
almost a combination between a workplace violence incident, which may have
precipitated and stopped a much larger terrorist attack on a more popular or a
more strategic target in the area.

HARRIS-PERRY: I want to talk about something else in the context of all of this.
So, we`ve also heard there from Chris Jansing that hundreds of investigators are
looking at evidence all around the world. You know, the big thing that happened
on air yesterday, though, was that dozens of members of the American media
including some of my colleagues here at MSNBC, went into the home where this
couple was living after apparently the FBI had already been through. Walked
through. There was like a live feed of us watching these things. And I guess I
am wondering in a moment like that for me, both whether or not there`s any sense
that there would be valuable evidence that media would uncover, but also really
importantly to me, I keep hearing this language of radicalization.

NANCE: Right.

HARRIS-PERRY: And I found those images very hard to watch. Very distressing and
disturbing about who we are. And I`m wondering whether or not those images also
then become troubling images for the rest of the world.

NANCE: Well, they could actually become troubling images if - it depends on the
media team of ISIS who are very, very good at exploiting propaganda. Believe me,
we have not yet seen the ISIS video that will come out in the next few days
where they probably will take claim for this attack and show how their lives of
these people afterwards were ripped apart in a raptor- line fashion by the news
media. I mean you watched them going through the baby crib. You watched them
checking the pampers. Granted, the news media, sort of its own intelligence
collection organization and you wanted to know something that other people
didn`t know. And it generally wasn`t going to be left behind, but perhaps this
could have been handled better.

HARRIS-PERRY: I want to also ask you about something that the president said.
Let`s take a quick lift into what he said about preventing this ideology from
taking hold.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: And even as we work to
prevent attacks, all of us, government, law enforcement, communities, faith
leaders, need to work together to prevent people from falling victim to these
hateful ideologies.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HARRIS-PERRY: What do you make of this language of hateful ideologies? When
we`re not quite sure yet what the motivations are?

NANCE: Well, I think the president speaking in a much grander sense, you know.
In terms of he, of course, is the person who is briefed of every aspect of this.
There are intelligence factors here which may not have filtered their way down
at the law enforcement, which may have been briefed to him from a national
security level using national assets. So, things that we may not know about are
happening in Syria, he may have on his desk. The ideology here clearly played
itself out, manifested itself in the way that they carried out the attack.

Also, we see indicators of the ideology in the way that they carved out their
family and abandoned their family. And that`s a core ideological factor. Part of
dogma of al Qaeda and ISIS ideology, which is Hijra, leave your family behind
and emigrate either mentally or physically to the place where jihadists operate.
So I think that the president himself understands that. To do something, you
have to call upon the community to at least give you any indicator, but this
ideology works without indications in many, many circumstances because, of
course, they`re not Islamic, they leave Islam behind. And that`s the painful
part is the Muslim community in the United States and around the world are going
to suffer for that.

HARRIS-PERRY: That`s a critical point, it feels like to me. Because I think the
way that we often talk about in discourse, is as though this is an out-birth of
Islam as opposed to a rejection of Islam.

NANCE: No, this is a cult. Islam has had five different cults in its history. In
644, you have the Hoaredj (ph), and then in the 11th century you have the
Karamites (ph). And then you have the Madis (ph) os Sudan. And then Oteibi who
seized the Grand Mosque in Mecca in 1979. And those survivors went into al
Qaeda. And this ideology is so un-Islamic. It`s anti-Islamic. They consider the
Muslim world their victim base.

HARRIS-PERRY: Malcolm Nance is going to be back with us later in the program. Up
next, the surging business of guns made right here on the USA.

HARRIS-PERRY: This year, many Americans chose not to do substantial holiday
shopping on Thanksgiving weekend. Retail spending dropped 11 percent over the
Thanksgiving weekend. Sales at retail stores on Black Friday were down by $1.2
billion. The two key factors, more people shopping online and more stores
offering their so-called Black Friday deals actually over the course of several
days.

Now, it`s too soon to tell, but maybe this is the beginning of the end of the
tradition of a single day of massive spike in sales to feed our frenzy of
consumerism. Black Friday is just not the day for shopping it once was. Unless
you`re in the market for a gun. If you are shopping for a gun, well, apparently
Black Friday was the day for you. Even as a shooting rampage played out at a
Colorado Springs Planned Parenthood clinic, the "New York Times" reports that
the FBI was busy processing about 2 firearm background checks per second.

All told, "The Times" reports that, quote, "the agency ran a record 185,345
background checks on Friday." About five percent more than the number processed
through the national instant criminal background check system on that same day
in 2014.

Throughout the year, month after month after month has seen a record number of
background checks for gun purchases. According to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco
and Firearms, gun manufacturing is up, way up. A report released earlier this
year, showed gun manufacturing in America started climbing in 2009. The first
year President Obama was in office. And by 2013, had doubled. 10,884,792. That`s
how many guns were made in the United States in 2013. The last year for which we
have data. According to the National Shooting Sports Foundation, companies in
the United States that manufacture, distribute and sell firearms, ammunition and
hunting equipment employ as many as 128,794 people in the country. And generate
an additional 133,850 jobs in supplier and incilary industries. The NSSF puts
the total economic impact of making and selling guns, ammunition and hunting
equipment at 42.9 billion. Billion. With a "b." in 2014. And the gunmakers -
well let`s just look. Smith & Wesson, and it`s more than half a billion dollars
in sales last year. Smith & Wesson`s stock price is up 93 percent this year. And
in its latest conference call, the company said the reason for strong sales is
simple, high demand.

Shooting after shooting. Body after body. The inaction is staggering. And the
polling shows us that America is near evenly split between those who say it`s
more important to control gun ownership versus those who prioritize the
protection of gun rights. And we think that the political divide on the issue or
the power of the NRA and it`s $250 million annual operating budget leads to this
lack of political will among our elected leaders to enact meaningful gun reform.
Maybe. Maybe. Or may just maybe the economic impact of $42.9 billion thanks to
the manufacturing and sale of guns and ammunition in America is playing part in
that politics too.

HARRIS-PERRY: In the immediate aftermath of the San Bernardino shootings, before
we really knew much of anything about the victims or the suspects involved, we
knew we`d hear one sentiment repeatedly. One that we`ve come to expect in the
wake of every national tragedy. An offering of thoughts and prayers for the
victims and their families. Politicians and others took to social media and to
the airwaves to say essentially the same thing, even if the words were
different.

It`s a common reaction in the time of grief and tragedy. But this time, there
was also a sense that thoughts and prayers may not be enough. Headlines like
this one from "The Huffington Post." "Another Mass Shooting. Another Deluge of
Tweeted Prayers." As the suspects` motive was still under investigation, some
lawmakers focused on the suspects` most deadly weapons. Guns. Noting that prayer
in the absence of meaningful gun policy change is insufficient. Senator Chris
Murphy of Connecticut where 20 children were shot and killed in Newtown in 2012,
tweeted this message, "Your thoughts should be about steps to take to stop this
carnage. Your prayers should be for forgiveness if you do nothing again." And
"The New York Daily News" put it even more bluntly with the cover reading, "God
Is Not Fixing This."

As we learn more about the suspects` motives in this shooting, it appears many
are re-examining the role of prayer in our response. Joining me now, the
Reverend Doctor Katharine Rhodes Henderson, President of Auburn Theological
Seminary. And Yolanda Pierce, associate professor of religion and literature at
Princeton Theological Seminary. I want to ask you a little bit, in part because
of the work of Auburn is about our public discourse about religion.

REV. DR. KATHARINE RHODES HENDERSON, PRESIDENT AUBURN SEMINARY: Right.

HARRIS-PERRY: So when we tweet prayers, when we say I`m praying for you, what
are we saying, what is the content of that?

RHODES HENDERSON: I think that what we`re saying is, that we`re aligning
ourselves, that we are putting ourselves in the space with those who are
suffering and we`re also acknowledging that that`s not just humans who are doing
this, but God is grieved and we believe that God suffers with all of those in
this case, those who have lost family members in these shootings.

So it`s aligning us with the will of God. It`s aligning us with all of those
other people who are grieving and with those who are suffering. I think that the
recent conversation that you`re referring to about prayer is very important,
because I think that what the public was reacting to, was the sense that prayer
alone can be shallow, that it didn`t ring true, and there were some of us after
Charleston, for example, who picked up this hash tag "prophetic grief." Not
pathetic grief ...

HARRIS-PERRY: Right.

RHODES HENDERSON: Where you`re not going to do anything and not just empathetic
grief, which is compassion, which is very important. But prophetic grief where
you are actually committed to doing something.

HARRIS-PERRY: So, part of what I find fascinating, about what Anabel what has
now been called prayer shaming in response to the kind of prayers offered, is
this idea that they are somehow divided, that there`s either praying or there`s
doing something as opposed to kind of a rich social movement tradition, in which
both things were happening at the same time.

YOLANDA PIERCE, ASSOC. PROF. PRINCETON THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY: Right. And I think
that`s the important piece to like really focus on. People don`t know what to
say when people are hurting and grieving. And so, prayers and thoughts is sort
of what they immediately say. I think the critique is when your prayers and
thoughts are contradictory to your actions, right, so I am praying that there
won`t be any more gun violence, even as I am actually doing something that is
the opposite, promoting more gun violence, right? And so, how do we deal with
the hypocrisy. And then also, I think, people are tired of like saying, well,
we`re waiting on something supernatural to happen. We could end gun violence if
we wanted to. We could end poverty if we wanted to. We as humans have the tools
at our disposal to end these things that grieve us so. And so, many people are
objecting to this notion that, well, what are we waiting for, right? If we`re
only seeing prayers and thoughts when we have the capacity to make a difference
right now.

HARRIS-PERRY: Let me ask about one other aspect of the politics of this prayer
question. So prayer, multiple times a day and often publicly is a pillar of
Islam. It is one of the ways that Islam is kind of an identifiable public
practice, right, is this notion of multiple times a day of prayer. And yet,
somehow this - so maybe I`m reading this wrong. I want to check me if I`m wrong
on this. I keep feeling like when we say, I`m praying, that we think we`re
praying to some kind of God that is anti- Muslim, that is counter-Islamic, and
that we consistently will see Muslims in prayer as somehow dangerous,
threatening, as opposed to prayerful and secret practice.

RHODES HENDERSON: I think that I mean in my tradition we say pray without
ceasing and prayer is always in season, so our prayer actually connects us, I
think to all of those other people, Muslims, Jews, Sikhs and others in the world
who are also praying. And I was in a cab last night and my cab driver was a
Muslim and I was tweeting away and he wanted to really engage me in a
conversation, a conversation about prayer, a conversation about his grief, my
grief. And his love of America, my love of America. And I think that sort of
through our conversation about prayer, we figured out what our shared values
were. And I think that, you know, he was demonstrating that it`s our connections
with each other that are in the end that are love, shall we say, for each other,
in the end, will be the only thing that will save us.

HARRIS-PERRY: Yeah. I`m going to stop you here only because I know you`re going
to be back with us. We are going to actually talk more through this. I want to
say thank you to the Reverend Doctor Katharine Henderson, Yolanda Pierce is, in
fact, sticking around. We have so much more on this this morning, on the San
Bernardino shooting, but up next, we`re actually going to go to Chicago. And to
the shooting of Laquan McDonald. And what we mean when we say accountability.

HARRIS-PERRY: The question of accountability has hounded Chicago Mayor Rahm
Emanuel since the video showing the police shooting death of Laquan McDonald
prompted a demand for answers about why it took 13 months and a court order to
force the city of Chicago to release the footage. And bring charges against the
officer who shot McDonald 16 times. When asked about the delay and his decision
up until a week ago not to watch the video despite having previously been aware
of its contents, Mayor Emanuel said this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

RAHM EMANUEL, MAYOR OF CHICAGO: We have a practice not unique to Chicago that
you don`t do anything as it relates to material evidence that would hamper,
hinder, compromise an investigation. I don`t look at material in a criminal
investigation, any of them. And if I had looked at that video, your question
before over the next several months is why do you get to see it and nobody else
does? So, I would see it when everybody else would see it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HARRIS-PERRY: The mayor gave that response to his critics in a Tuesday press
conference where he announced that he requested the resignation of Chicago
police super-intendant Gary McCarthy. Now, McCarthy`s removal was a partial
victory for activists who have demanded the resignation of McCarthy, Mayor
Emanuel and Cook County State Attorney Anita Alvarez. And it was also a partial
response to the call for accountability. Not just from individuals responsible
for the police, but from the institution that they represent. Mayor Emanuel
addressed some of those concerns with the announcement of a police
accountability taskforce. And the expanded use of body cameras. But as "The
Chicago Tribune" pointed out this week, Emanuel`s narrative comes against a
backdrop of decades worth of Chicago police torture and wrongful conviction
cases, corruption and slap- ineffectual oversight practices in shootings and
other excessive force actions by officers.

Time and again, the police department has quickly cleared officers of
allegations only to have civil litigation later reveal video and other evidence
that painted a much darker picture of police misconduct.

It is an indictment that implicates not only individual policies and people, but
the entire culture of policing in Chicago. And given the last year in which
Chicago, Ferguson, Baltimore and so many other cities have stood as a testament
to the consequences of what kind of culture and what kind of meaningful
accountability can there be in these circumstances.

Joining me now is Russell Brandom, who is reporter for "The Verge", Yolanda
Pierce, associate professor of African American religion and literature at
Princeton Theological Seminary, Dorian Warren, MSNBC contributor, and host of
"Nerding Out" on MSNBC shift. And from Chicago is Eugene O`Donnell, professor of
law and police studies at John Jay College of Criminal Justice and a former
officer with the NYPD.

I want to start with you, Eugene. Just to ask the very simple question of
whether or not it makes a difference in a department who the police chief is or
whether or not the chief is kind of far enough away that they don`t actually
impact the culture of what happens on the ground.

EUGENE O`DONNELL, PROF., JOHN JAY COLLEGE OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE: Well, these are
political failures. All this. Always, these are political failures. That`s where
the start is. And political people like to point out, down and around, but don`t
want to be held accountable themselves almost invariably. It looks, the more you
look in Chicago, the more it looks like they need a nap commission like you had
in New York in the early 1970s. They had systemic corruption. They assumed that
80 percent of the people wanted to be good, 10 percent of the people were good
and 10 percent of the people were bad and you had to actually liberate the
agency for the good people. You had to rearrange the whole organization. And it
was muscular. It was - and it may have to be for the whole criminal justice
system. It has to be people that are credible and are strong and are willing to
go where they have to go.

And where it`s - and ultimately, because what we`re talking about is ending
wrongdoing. We need to do that of course, we also in Chicago urgently have to
create right doing. A culture of right doing in their police department. So,
they need to really be aggressive. A federal overseer is a piece, but it`s only
a tiny piece. There needs to be a radical reform.

HARRIS-PERRY: Stick with me, because Dorian, I want to ask you the question of
whether or not it is even conceivable to have radical reform while the same
mayor is in.

DORIAN WARREN, MSNBC CONTRIBUTOR: No. And the mayor has to go. The state
attorney has to go, Anita Alvarez, and frankly, I think we need to start asking
some questions about the city council which voted on the $5 million settlement
to the McDonald family.

HARRIS-PERRY: Apparently without seeing the video.

WARREN: Apparently without seeing the video. Maybe some did, maybe some didn`t.
Maybe some actually read through it. Maybe some didn`t. That goes to the
incompetence of the entire city council and particularly the black caucus. I
need to be very clear about this. We need to ask questions of all of those
political leaders in that city, from the mayor on down. They all need to go. And
we need some viable reformers. There is a question, we were talking before.

HARRIS-PERRY: So who`s ...

WARREN: Right, and who?

HARRIS-PERRY: Is it - does Garcia show up and change this.

WARREN: But the final thing in terms of - in terms of Rahm Emanuel, when you are
opposing the inspector general of the city, when you are going to court to fight
against having the inspector general, who is one formal mechanism of
accountability, from seeing public documents, that I s- that`s the level of
corruption at the highest levels. The lack of transparency, the lack of
accountability.

HARRIS-PERRY: Are those documents public? And so, this is - you know, you have
this great piece that have all of us kind of debating this in part because I`m
thinking, all right, that`s the police, that`s people, my tax dollars, whatever
they got, that`s actually my stuff, right, from the perspective of folks who are
living in a city. And so, why in the world would it take 13 months? And then
your piece helps me understand, oh no, but police either says, we bought it out
of the budget, that`s ours.

RUSSELL BRANDOM, REPORTER, THE VERGE: Yeah, I mean that`s the thing. I think in
some sense, you know, it`s public so they can`t get rid of the video. That`s the
part of it that worked. But once it`s in the system, that`s very much under
police control the same way, you know, I think they see something, you know, if
it`s in the evidence locker, something like that, you know, there very - when
they are buying these systems, which - and these are all systems that are bought
and paid for by, you know, that`s coming out of the police budget. They want to
buy a system that will give them control of the video.

HARRIS-PERRY: And so, in part, and Yolanda, this for me is the challenge, you
know, body cameras have been part of what Black Lives Matter, other activists
have been asking for in part because it does feel like once we see the video, as
we did in the McDonald case, it can change our - but on the other hand, I also
wonder, doesn`t this create more surveillance? Like the very fact that police
want them makes me a little nervous this is going to create police
accountability.

PIERCE: Well, it`s a couple of things. One is that the surveillance is always
pointed at the people who are supposed to be the potential criminals, the
potential trespassers. And who`s watching the watchers? And I mean that`s the
question I think people are talking about. So, on one hand, these body cams
which has given us evidence that we otherwise would not have had and has
disrupted the narrative that we got from police officers about these particular
cases that`s so crucial, but it`s pointed outward.

So, people are asking the question, who`s pointing certain cameras inward so
that we can see when the violation is actually happening among law enforcement?
So we see this with the missing minutes, right, the missing footage. If we did
not have other footage that showed us that in fact, a video was, in fact,
missing these minutes, how would we have ever known that? So body cams are not
enough. And I think Black Lives Matter activists and other grassroots groups
have always said that, it`s simply not enough.

HARRIS-PERRY: And your point about who`s watching is so important. Because the
answer is supposed to be the state - the answer is supposed to be that
independent media are meant to be able to have a sense of -- that we are
supposed to in part to be able to hold these organizations accountable. You see
the tribune and saying this in part about Emanuel, but then I wonder about the
ways, in which people wonder if we are even accountable, right, whether or not
we can make those - those right - we`ll talk much more about all of that when we
come back.

HARRIS-PERRY: So, of Chicago next week may feel familiar with the city expected
to allow the release of another dash cam video showing another police officer
shooting and killing of another African-American man. This video like the
footage of the Laquan McDonald shooting is also more than a year old. And the
family of 25-year-old Ronald Johnson III has been fighting for the release of
the video since he was shot and killed on October 12, 2014, just eight days
before the Laquan McDonald shooting. At the time of the incident, a spokesman
for the fraternal order of police said that Officer George Fernandez shot
Johnson after he turned toward him while holding a gun. But Johnson`s mother,
Dorothy Holmes, says she has watched the video and in a Tuesday press conference
she talked about what she saw and her decision to turn down a settlement offer
that she says was proposed to her by the city.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DOROTHY HOLMES, MOTHER OF RONALD JOHNSON: He didn`t have a gun in his hand.
Because I also seen the video. I looked at the video twice. My main concern is,
my son life didn`t have a price tag. And if whatever money recover can get this
man convicted that murdered my son, then they keep. Because it`s still dirty
money. It is not going to bring him back. It`s not going to make me happy. I
don`t want it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HARRIS-PERRY: Miss Holmes was joined at the press conference by her attorney who
discussed the family`s motivations for pursuing the release of the video.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MICHAEL OPPENHEIMER, RONALD JOHNSON FAMILY ATTORNEY: Taxpayers have paid for
those dash cams. They have paid for those cars. And what the city has done is
taken that video, taken the important evidence in this case, and denied the
public from seeing it. The public has the right to see it. And that`s one of the
reasons we`re here.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HARRIS-PERRY: OK, so I got so many different things on this. Let me just real
quick come to you, Dorian, on what we were talking about before, which is what
can sometimes feel like an unholy alliance between media and these reportings.
So the police say, such and such and such and such and such, and then media, we
report on it. The police said such and such and such. And here`s a mother who`s
incredibly compelling saying, no, I saw it and that`s not what I saw. We often
take kind of what of the police report is as though it just is what happened.

WARREN: Never again, at least in the city of Chicago, and probably most other
cities. We can add Minneapolis, Baltimore. Let`s keep adding to the list. No
longer can we take a police report for granted as the truth. Because let`s be
very clear. They lied on the police reports. And but for independent
journalists, not even from "The Tribune" or "Sun Times," let`s be clear about
that too, independent journalists who probably are going to be blacklisted for
this, but for them doing the flier request to get access to the autopsy report
and the video cam from the dashboard, we wouldn`t have known that the police
lied and everybody all the way up to Rahm Emanuel knew about this.

HARRIS-PERRY: Right. And so, here we are again. This young man shot eight days
before Laquan McDonald. Again, you know, all of these months passed. We still
don`t have the video. Will video save us? I mean we were talking in the break,
the Burger King was the hero of the Laquan McDonald case. Is video enough to
bring about accountability and justice?

BRANDOM: I mean I think we have seen video, it just hasn`t been police video.
Right? It`s been - standard video. That`s what we saw with Walter Scott. What we
saw with Eric Garner. And that`s why I mean I think, you know, if you want to
hold police accountable with video, the answer isn`t, you know, lobbying for
buying body cameras, it`s protecting the rights of citizens to film the police.
Because that`s - you know, then we don`t have to have this year long legal case.
We don`t have to be playing political football over who deserves ...

HARRIS-PERRY: Right, because if it`s on my cell phone.

BRANDOM: Yeah, it`s my video, we`re releasing it, that`s it.

PIERCE: So, what makes me frustrated about this, is the way in which we position
grieving hurting people as the people who are responsible for bringing justice.
I was watching the clip of Ronald Johnson`s mother. And I`m near tears.

HARRIS-PERRY: Yes.

PIERCE: She has to take on the responsibility of making sure that justice can be
done. And that`s what`s unfair. That`s what should challenge us. We were talking
earlier about prayer, right, that`s where we have to say it`s enough. It should
not be the responsibility of a mother who has just lost her child to have to
pursue this to the ends of the earth, whether it`s through the body cam or
whether it`s through bystander video. Where is justice for her and why is it on
her grieving body?

HARRIS-PERRY: I thought about this so often when all of us, of course, fell for
the vice president when he talked about the grief that he had and how difficult
it was to think about running for office. And while feeling that, I also have
thought about all of the mothers who have lost children and yet immediately
found themselves, not public people before that, suddenly basically having to
run political campaigns in order to just get justice for their kid. Eugene, let
me come to you on this as well, because you talked about not only stopping
wrongdoing, but beginning right doing. And it feels to me like part of what
Yolanda was saying there is, it ought to be police officers who are most
interested in the question of justice, who are most interested in being sure
that when they are policing that when they are engaging that they are, in fact,
protecting and serving. So, why isn`t it the police who are saying let`s find
these videos and let`s look at them and let`s investigate?

O`DONNELL: Which is so important. As the conversation that gets polarized.
People are most interested in hearing about right now, again, I want to hear
what the cops have to say, the good cops who are out there, for the right
reasons, what they feel their job is about, what it looks like and the
community, what the community wants. And I think there will be surprises in that
conversation. But no question, this whole -- the issue with these body cameras,
ultimately political people love these body cameras. Police chiefs even love
these body cameras. It takes systemic failures and shortcomings and problems and
it pushes them down on the lowest possible level.

HARRIS-PERRY: Yes.

O`DONNELL: In this Laquan case. None of the cops there had a taser. Now, I`m not
a big fan of tasers, but I`m a big fan of saving life. How is it that nobody had
a taser there?

HARRIS-PERRY: Yes.

O`DONNELL: There is very large questions that need to be raised. In a gotcha
culture, not only is bad in terms of ultimately we`re just trying to penalize
the police. You`re losing lives.

HARRIS-PERRY: Yes.

O`DONNELL: You have two dead people. It`s too late now. We need to be doing
systemic proactive reforming.

HARRIS-PERRY: I actually really want to underline that. Because I think that
that`s not a small point. That it becomes overwhelmingly easy to look at the
person who is the shooter, right, I mean not that there isn`t responsibility
there. But the ways, in which we have all of these incentives that then create
these bad acts kind of at the lowest level, but often not walking back up the
chain and saying where do these incentives come from, what kind of messages are
people getting and quite honestly, this idea of like good officers, but still
part of a culture who, like where you just don`t speak against your boss, right,
or you don`t speak against the blue coat.

DONNELL: Well, I mean there should be accountability, but we also have to
remember, what you were talking about earlier in the show, seven people are shot
in Chicago every single day on average. If you did a shooting map of this city
and many other cities in America for five or ten years, you can`t see the city.
The city is covered with dots. I believe it`s 5,000. Several. It`s - pardon me,
it`s 10,000, 12,000 shootings in five years. 10,000 shootings since this mayor
took office. How do these kids, how do these children for the most part, young
adults, how are they able to access firearms? How are firearms so readily
available?

HARRIS-PERRY: Thank you to Eugene O`Donnell, in Chicago, you`ve raised deeply
important questions for us. The issues of the actions of police and who`s
responsible. We`re going to talk to somebody who was responsible for a police
department, as soon as we come back.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

EMANUEL: I want to have somebody that will meet the needs of both the public
safety, help, obviously, in this issue of both changing the culture, putting in
place the building blocks to restore the confidence and trust that we are seeing
- we want to see in the city of Chicago. And have a record of in a police
department of invigorating the type of not only commitment to a - but the type
of commitment I want to see to make the changes necessary. Not only to lead the
department, but to lead the changes in the department to get the results we
want.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HARRIS-PERRY: It was Mayor Rahm Emanuel on Tuesday, discussing the
responsibilities of the next person to hold the position of police
superintendent in Chicago. Joining me now is someone who have had firsthand
experience of doing that job in another big city. Ronal Serpas is the former New
Orleans` police superintendent and now criminal justice professor at Loyola
University.

I want to point out that you and the recently fired police chief of Chicago
share the unique experience of having been chiefs, going to a troubled city,
leading the force and then resigning after a controversial public shooting.

And so, I`m wondering, what you can tell our viewers about what that experience
is like.

RONAL SERPAS: You know, being a chief in the large city, and thank you for
having me, Melissa. Being a chief in the large city has a lot of complications.
I think we can all agree there are a lot of issues going around in Chicago and
other cities.

I think police chiefs who are willing to go to another community and take on the
challenges of being an outsider, also bring with them a certain time calendar of
their term of office. Many people are going to resist change, they are going to
resist it heavily. Labor organizations, civil service commissions and rules,
state legislative processes, so when a guy like Gary or myself, or Chuck Ramsey
or Bill Bratton takes on a large city coming in from the outside, we know we are
going to have a lot of resistance, but we are going to be there to make as many
differences as we can when we are there.

HARRIS-PERRY: So, Chief Serpas, you are talking about the kind of the timeline.
You actually resigned as chief of the New Orleans police just four days after it
became clear that an officer-involved shooting of a man during a traffic stop
hadn`t been disclosed to the public. And yet, you are actually now leading - and
one of the leading voices of the 21st century policing reform effort.

Should this public be concerned about that?

SERPAS: I think what the public recognizes, that we are going to try to get it
right every day, that we have many people who work for us, who sometimes get it
right, and sometimes mistakes are made. And when a mistakes is made, you`ve got
to stand upfront really quickly and say, a mistake was made, which is what we
did. What we are leading now, is 130 - 150 law enforcement leaders who are
saying, we know counter intuitive as it may see, we know that we can reduce
arrest and we can reduce incarceration at the same time. And we have plenty of
evidence and stories to show it. We absolutely believe that we need to find
alternatives to arrest, deal with mandatory minimum reforms, deal with changing
laws to keep up with current days and continue to build our support in
relationships with the communities and I`m very proud to be working with the
Brandon Center to do this.

HARRIS-PERRY: So, obviously, there is a great deal of conversation right now in
Chicago about the mayor. And the idea that the police chief goes with the mayor
is still there.

And so, I`d like to ask you. I know that you came in initially in New Orleans,
had a positive relationship with Mayor Landrieu, but on your way out, it was
made clear, that you had been asking for more resources, that you`d wanted more
money, more funds for the police and that those hadn`t been forthcoming, even as
requests from the mayor.

And so, can you talk to me a little bit about what it means to be a police chief
and the mayor. Who should be held accountable in these circumstances?

SERPAS: You know, I was blessed with the opportunity. I worked for a governor,
and I worked for three different mayors. Mayor Landrieu was the last elected
leader I worked for. And in every one of those governments, or governments who
actually going broke, believe it or not, at the same time, from 2001 forward,
that was my job, and I took my job very seriously to express what I thought I
needed, just like a football coach went to the owner. I need these players in
these positions in this field. Every police chief is going to make those
requests, and every police chief is going to, you know, argue hard for their
department. Mayors have to make different decisions, and I certainly respected
and understood I was part of a team, and I still think that I was part of a
team, but at the end of the day, I`m convinced that we needed to hire more, and
we needed to hire more frequently, and we needed to maintain educational
achievement requirements for hire. I think that`s what`s going on around the
country. We have to hire all the time to get these officers and fill these
billets.

HARRIS-PERRY: Thank you to Ronal Serpas in New Orleans, and here in New York,
thank you to Russell Brandom and Dorian Warren. Yolanda Pierce is going to be
back with us in the next hour. At the top of the hour, we have the latest on the
investigations of the San Bernardino shooting as well as understanding what it
means when our secretary of defense says, that we are a nation at war.

HARRIS-PERRY: Good morning. I`m Melissa Harris-Perry.

And we begin this hour with the latest details on the mass shooting in San
Bernardino, California, which the FBI is now investigating as an act of
terrorism.

"Reuters" is reporting that ISIS said in an online radio broadcast that
followers of the group carried out the attacks that killed 14 people.

The FBI says there`s no evidence that the attack was directed by ISIS. But
officials say one of the suspects, Tashfeen Malik, pledged allegiance to ISIS in
a Facebook post in about the same time she and her husband Syed Farook launched
their attack.

In his weekly address released this morning, President Obama had this to say
about the investigation.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: It`s important to let the
investigators do their jobs. We need to know all the facts. At my direction,
federal law enforcement is helping in every way that they can. We`re going to
get to the bottom of this. It is entirely possible that these two attackers were
radicalized to commit this attack of terror. It would underscore a threat we`ve
been focused on for years, the danger of people succumbing to violent extremist
ideologies.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HARRIS-PERRY: Joining us now for the very latest from San Bernardino,
California, is NBC`s Chris Jansing.

Chris, what kind of evidence are investigators focusing on right now?

JANSING: Well, one of the key questions, Melissa, was, where did this come from?
Was this a lone wolf kind of attack? Were they self-radicalized or were they in
touch with other people?

We said this morning, again, that there was some confirmation that right before
this attack took place or almost simultaneously, the wife of this couple posted
online that there was -- that she was connected -- not connected to but she
pledged allegiance to ISIS.

Well, now our partners at Flashpoint are saying to us, ISIS is clearly saying we
did not direct this attack -- very important distinction between directing an
attack and inspiring an attack. They seem to be trying to send the message that
this was, indeed, a self-radicalization situation.

Much of the evidence that the FBI is looking at right now has to do with
electronics. They have a large volume of it, but also the couple tried to
destroy it. We heard from FBI Director Comey yesterday about how critical this
evidence is. Much of it has already been flown back to Quantico where the FBI
has a number of labs, sub units, that do nothing but look at this kind of
electronic evidence.

Two cell phones in particular that were smashed and thrown into the garbage
cannot far from their home. They`ll try to retrieve whatever information they
can get off of those. At least one computer hard drive that was taken from their
home.

What are they looking for? Well, among other things, they`ll be looking at what
kind of records there might be. Where did they get, for example, much of this
bomb making material? They had a virtual bomb making factory inside that
suburban home. Photos, is there anything that can tell them about location? In
particular, with the cell phones, the GPS, where did they travel to? Would that
give them indication of where they bought some of this stuff or who they might
have met?

And then as Director Comey said yesterday, there`s a lot of evidence that just
doesn`t make sense and much of that is personal, the 6-month-old child. The
family that seemed to be living the American dream. Why would you just walk away
from all that?

Yesterday, there was a scare at a local UPS facility and it turned out this
package addressed to them was just some clothes they had ordered online. Why
would you order clothes online if you knew you were going to mount an attack?

So, a lot of evidence that they are looking at but so far the key question that
is hanging out there is what was their motive? And that answer is elusive right
now -- Melissa.

HARRIS-PERRY: Thank you to NBC`s Chris Jansing in San Bernardino, California.

The San Bernardino shootings came less than a week after a gunman opened fire at
a Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado killing three people. And according to
the database, shootingtracker.com, it was at least the 353rd mass shooting of
the year. With mass shootings defined in this case as those with four or more
people killed or injured. By that scale, that`s more than one a day in the
United States.

But other databases using other criteria cite much lower numbers. According to
"Mother Jones", San Bernardino shooting was the fourth mass shooting of the
year. And despite these recent premeditated attacks, the overall number of
Americans killed by gun violence is actually on the decrease. According to
analysis from the Pew Research Center, the rate of homicides by firearms was cut
in half between 1993 and 2013.

But the impact of these incidents is not just about the numbers. It`s also about
perception. With each report about mass shooting, Americans are pushed into a
cycle of fear and grief and mounting anger and frustration over our inability to
make them stop.

And now, add to the mix the specter of terrorism and you can understand why the
American psyche may in fact be under duress.

Joining me now are Malcolm Nance, executive director of the Terror Assymetrics
Project, Linda Sarsour, executive director of the Arab-American Association of
New York, MSNBC military analyst Jack Jacobs, and Yolanda Pierce, associate
director of Princeton Theological Seminary.

And joining me now from Miami, Dr. Jonathan Metzl, director of the Center for
Medicine, Health and Society at Vanderbilt University, and research director of
the Safe Tennessee Project, which focuses on gun violence as a public health
issue.

I just want to ask you this question, how is it that fear affects, Jonathan, our
individual psyche and decision-making? And is there kind of a collective aspect
to that as well?

JONATHAN METZL, DIR., CTR. FOR MEDICINE, HEALTH & SOCIETY, VANDERBILT
UNIVERSITY: Well, I think it`s a great question. It`s a question many people are
asking at the present moment. I think that partially, it`s because in the
aftermath of acts of terror, there is something incredibly unpredictable in a
way. We can`t predict mass shootings. And very often, we hear these shootings
of, you know, this person was living the American dream as the reporter before
said.

So, there`s this sense that we can`t keep our family safe, that how can we
predict this if we`re not safe at movie theaters, in churches, in places of work
and holiday parties? I think it`s those moments, though, it`s important to
remember that even though it`s very hard to predict mass shootings in advance,
that we`re here in part because of decisions we`ve made as a society.

And so, we`re not just anxious and less safe because of mass shootings, we`re
also less safe because the bigger lessons of mass shootings are that it`s far
easier to amass a personal arsenal and that`s legal in many ways as we`ve seen.

So, we`ve made societal decisions that made it much easier for people to get
guns, to amass ammunition, to do all these factors. And the other thing is we`ve
also increased, you know, weapons in seemingly safe spaces like parks and
churches and bars.

So in a way, the way we think we can address our society even after we ask these
hard questions is to also step back and say what are the policy decisions we can
make, what do we do to get here and how can we step back and really reverse some
of those policy decisions.

HARRIS-PERRY: It also, you know, it`s interesting to me, in part, you know,
living in a time where there are many different ways in which gun violence
enters into our lives. And yet the language of terrorism in particular, or mass
shootings of strangers in public places, let me think of it that way, leads to a
kind of frenzy and a set of incentives that I think actually creates all kinds
of poor chooses.

I mean, I think we saw this in some of the policy making we made in a post- 9/11
world. I honestly think we saw that in part in some of the decision making by
the media yesterday. A kind of frenzy that led us to not do, to not make choices
we would have otherwise made.

METZL: Well, I think it`s a mistake because I think part of the issue that
happens in the aftermath, and we even heard it in some of the statements before,
is this shooting was driven by ideology. Therefore, it must be driven by
terrorism, unlike other mass shootings. But I think it`s also important to
remember that many mass shootings are driven by ideology. That distinction is a
very weak one in a way.

Look at the Charleston shooting, for example. I mean, how could you possibly
think that wasn`t driven by some kind of ideology.

And so, in that sense, I think there`s a bigger question about our society and
really I think we`re starting to ask that now. I think this is an important
conversation we`re having, which is what are the frames we put around these
issues and how are they linked to broader societal stigmatization and biases in
a way that helps us in a way address some of these issues.

HARRIS-PERRY: So, what, Malcolm --

NANCE: Yes.

HARRIS-PERRY: -- what are the frames that make sense? Because what I don`t want
to do is say, we shouldn`t use a terrorism frame because that leads us to not
being able to identify things that are meaningfully different than, for example,
interpersonal violence that might lead to gun violence. On the other hand, I am
really worried about what we call terrorism and what we don`t.

NANCE: Well, terrorism is clearly defined. You know, it`s an act of violence or
political violence or threat thereof which impacts an audience outside of the
immediate victims. And we won`t know until the FBI starts doing much deeper
forensic analyst. You know, the personal motivation of the shooters themselves.
We have an indicator that someone may have pledged their loyalty to ISIS. Well,
then that would take it outside of the frame of what workplace violence and
outside of the frame of regular violence and would bring it clearly into the
definition of terrorism.

HARRIS-PERRY: But as clear as that definition is, when you say it, it sounds
like, yes, of course, that makes perfect sense to me. We are the resistance to
using terrorism, for example, to talk about Charleston or to talk about even the
Planned Parenthood shooting, versus the willingness, Linda, to talk about it in
context when, in fact, shooters are also people who are Muslims.

LINDA SARSOUR, EXEC. DIR., ARAB AMERICAN ASSOC. OF NEW YORK: I mean, it`s deja
vu for me every time that perpetrators end up being Muslim. We went from
immediately knowing from eyewitnesses that they were three white males, which,
by the way, multiple witnesses, three medium built, white males, and let`s not
even go there. And then you were talking about gun control and Think Progress
went all over the Republican candidates about thoughts and prayers, not fixing
the laws.

And then, all of a sudden, find out they`re Muslim -- bam, gun violence is out
of the question. We start talking about terrorism. And I`m extremely disturbed.
I mean, I look at "The New York Times" cover today, here you have a whole op-ed
on gun control, great. Right next to it is pictures from the apartment of things
that I have in my house.

HARRIS-PERRY: Yes.

SARSOUR: Like these are things that all Muslims had in their house. There`s
nothing about that that tells you a story about what terrorism looks like. So,
you`re telling me when my friends who are not Muslim come into my home and see a
Koran or see frames on the wall with a scripture from my religion, is that
supposed to tell you something? I mean, it`s absolutely outrageous.

We would never do that to anyone. We didn`t do that to Dear. We didn`t do that
to Roof. I`m tired of the double standards of how we treat Muslims if they are
the perpetrators.

HARRIS-PERRY: That image and then also right next to it is image of the shooter,
the suspect, in the hijab. The idea that, like, OK, this is what terrorism looks
like. For me, that is a difference. It is a material and meaningful difference
in how we -- so, on the one hand, I want to be able to talk about what the thing
is that is terrorism. On the other hand, I have to reflect that this happened
only for a specific community.

PIERCE: Some people are terrorists and some people are not. Some people get
branded terrorist very quickly and some people do not. Some people get searched
with extra scrutiny at the airport and some people do not. I think we have to
talk about the inconsistency. I think we have to talk about the double
standards.

I also think we have to talk about our cultural amnesia, which is that we have a
frenzy after something happens, and then it goes away and we forget. Then it
happens again and we have the frenzy again.

What does it mean to have a sustained conversation in our country about gun
violence, or about terrorism, or about the acts of disparity when it comes to
particular racists and cultures who are under particular kind of scrutiny and
not simply wait for the frenzy to happen but to have something sustained so we
can actually make some changes, so it`s actually unacceptable to frame people of
one religious group, as somehow inherently more terroristic than people of other
religious groups.

HARRIS-PERRY: When we come back, the FBI director talks about this issue and how
are we to react in the face of terror.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JAMES COMEY, FBI DIRECTOR: We know this is very unsettling for the people of the
United States. What we hope you will do is not let fear become disabling but to
instead try to channel it into an awareness of your surroundings, to get you to
a place where you are living your life but if you see something that doesn`t
make sense, you say something to somebody.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HARRIS-PERRY: That was FBI Director James Comey on Friday commenting on the
terror investigation in the San Bernardino shootings and how the public should
respond. It was interesting for me that he was saying, oh, you shouldn`t get
sort of so worked up and afraid even though this is terrorism, especially
considering what he said about police officers and YouTube earlier in the year.
Let`s take a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

COMEY: YouTube world, our officers reluctant to get out of their cars and do the
work that controls violent crimes, our officers answering 911 calls but avoiding
the informal contact that keeps bad guys from standing around especially with
guns. The suggestion, the question that`s been asked of me is, are these kinds
of things challenging police behavior all over the country? I do have a strong
sense that some part of the explanation is the chill wind that is blown through
law enforcement over the last year and that wind is surely changing behavior.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HARRIS-PERRY: Oh, Colonel Jack, so, I don`t know -- police officers are too
afraid of YouTube to do their jobs but the rest of us are not meant to --

COL. JACK JACOBS, MSNBC MILITARY ANALYST: Yes, I doubt it. I think that was a
knee-jerk response to what was at that time something of a frenzy. You know,
we`re in the middle of probably the biggest revolution, distribution of
information since the invention of the printing press, and I think none of us
knows exactly where it`s going to go. And that`s why reactions like the director
had. Immediately in the aftermath of that saying -- well, everybody`s going to
be scared to do their job seemed like a good idea at the time. It seemed like it
was perceptive at the time. But, obviously, in retrospect, it`s not. At least
part of it`s because we don`t know the full reach of information in a way it`s
changing.

But I don`t think -- I mean, I`m not a cop and I don`t know, but I spent a lot
of time in combat and I wouldn`t have acted any different and you have too. I
wouldn`t have acted any different if I had a camera on or I didn`t have a camera
on in the middle of combat. I would go ahead and do my job.

HARRIS-PERRY: I want to come to you Jonathan, because in a moment like this, you
know, there can be an effort to either link the shooters in San Bernardino to a
broader set of cultural religious, you know, community questions by trying to
make this argument about ISIS or one can just say, oh, there`s individuals who
are deranged, crazy. We should think of them as individuals with mental
illnesses.

You know, honestly, I`m not sure which one I find more troubling as a kind of
sort of stereotype. So, talk to me about how we should think about kind of
individual mental state versus these narratives about broader connections.

METZL: Well, let me just say, first of all, we live in a very scary time. I
mean, it does seem like there`s a repetitive death cycle on the news. Shootings
are happening all the time. We live in an era of great uncertainty. And it does
almost feel like, you know, who`s in control, who`s going to keep us safe.

And so, in an that sense, there`s a disseminated sense of anxiety, and it makes
sense, especially given these events, why gun violence and issues like this are
presented as the FBI director was saying, kind of beware, observe external
threats.

But again, I think it`s important to note that if you look at trends in gun
violence in the United States, that you`re far more likely to get shot by a
relative, a neighbor, a sister, you know, a domestic violence kind of thing. We
also have 20,000 gun suicides a year in the United States. You`re in danger of
yourself in a particular way.

So, in a sense, externalizing this threat, which is I think again on one hand
understandable, kind of effaces the real threat of gun violence which is that
gun violence very often happens in social networks. And so, I agree with the
comment before, which is we need to have a sustained -- a sustained conversation
in this country about the broader implications, not just of gun violence but of
the increasing kind of militazation (ph) of our society, because I do think
that`s contributing to a sense of anxiety.

HARRIS-PERRY: You know, we`re talking earlier also, Linda, about surveillance,
when we`re talking about policing, but when I also hear the FBI director say, be
aware of your surroundings that if you see something threatening, I have to say,
in this moment, you look threatening, because what we have done on the front
page is to put someone who looks like you on it and I certainly know something
about sort of living in that world where on any living day, Malcolm is what
looks threatening in the world, right?

And so, I wonder about making a piece of advice that what we should do in order
to keep ourselves safe is to look around us and look at who looks suspicious,
when we know that there`s so much implicit bias in that.

SARSOUR: Absolutely. I mean, right now, I`m watching American Muslims,
particularly young American Muslims, who are also shocked and mourning, you
know, loss of life. We mourn loss of life every day. We just came out of Paris
recently. We came out of Beirut. We came out of Kenya and Nigeria and every day,
you know, we`re experiencing these things.

And here are American Muslims telling each other, here are five self- defense,
you know, tactics that you should learn. Woman in hijab, don`t take your hijab
off but maybe you could wear a hat, or maybe you could tie it to the back. Don`t
stand too close on the train platform. Wait until the train gets there and stops
until you get on the train.

I mean, this is the things that we`re telling each other, that we don`t trust
our fellow Americans, that they can look at us as fellow Americans, as fellow
New Yorkers, that we are just as horrified as anybody else on these shootings.
As a matter of fact, one of the women who was shot in San Bernardino was a
Muslim social worker.

HARRIS-PERRY: Yes.

SARSOUR: These terrorists when they do this, I don`t care what -- look,
terrorists are all kinds of people for me.

HARRIS-PERRY: Yes.

SARSOUR: They don`t care who they`re shooting. I mean, we talked about ISIS and
we talked about this with you before. The largest group of victims of ISIS are
Muslims. No one wants to talk about that. Here are young people born and raised
in this country who are fearful and don`t feel like they belong in a country
that has Muslim lineage from the days of its founding and it breaks my heart
every day, my children included.

HARRIS-PERRY: Malcolm, I have more for you on this but they`ll make me take a
commercial. But I actually want to ask you, because we know profiling actually
leads to a bunch of bad outcomes in local policing. And so, I`m also wondering
about what it keeps us from doing well when we talk about counterterrorism as
well.

Thank you, Jonathan Metzl in Miami, Florida. Enjoy the nice weather down there.

And up next, we are at war. That is what the United States secretary of defense
told our Congress this week.

HARRIS-PERRY: This week, the U.S. raised the stakes in its fight against ISIS.
Defense Secretary Ash Carter told a House hearing the Pentagon will expand into
the special operations force in Iraq to fight Islamic state militants in Iraq
and Syria.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ASHTON CARTER, DEFENSE SECRETARY: We`re at war. We`re using the might of the
finest fighting force the world has ever known. These special operators will,
over time, be able to conduct raids, free hostages, gather intelligence, and
capture ISIL leaders.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HARRIS-PERRY: The new deployment will build upon the 3,500 troops already in
Iraq and is being called, quote, "a specialized expeditionary targeting force".
The raids it will be able to conduct will target Islamic State militants, what
the Pentagon calls, quote, "high value target". Secretary Carter did not say how
many new troops will be sent to Iraq but defense officials told NBC News the new
standing force would comprise of 250 special operation forces that would conduct
ground combat raids against is targets in both Iraq and Syria.

This change in strategy marks a deepening involvement for the U.S. military and
at a time when some critics are pushing President Obama to go further,
Republican Senator McCain who is the chairman of the Senate Armed Services
Committee said in a written statement Secretary Carter`s announcement is quote a
belated step forward.

So, Jack, I don`t know quite what to do with the war language because --

JACOBS: Ignore it, I think --

HARRIS-PERRY: Yes, it feels odd when we think about what this particular
engagement is. War always sounds like we`re fighting a nation state which is not
what`s happening here.

JACOBS: Well, it also sounds like it`s putting people in uniform and having them
go out there and fight the bad guys to kill or capture them as we do in the
infantry and then hold on to the terrain as long as necessary in order to
reinstitute the government and all the rest of that stuff. But that`s not what
we`re doing at all.

There are two things about that, all that. The first is we`re focusing on
equipment that is bombs rather than people. That usually doesn`t work. Unless
you`re going to use strategic weapons, which are nuclear weapons which we`re not
going to use. Tactical weapons don`t work. Even over a long period of time.

We firebombed Dresden. We firebombed Tokyo. We firebombed Hamburg. We killed
more people with firebomb in the Second World War than we killed with nuclear
weapons. The Nazis bombed London. None of that, none of the conventional weapons
did anything at all. I`m not arguing to use nuclear weapons because we`re not
going to do it, it doesn`t make any sense.

But the real point is the only purpose for these weapons is to make it easy for
people on the ground to seize and hold the terrain. Now, that`s not going to be
us. That`s going to be people -- it should be people from the region who have a
stake in what really happens here.

But so far, we haven`t been able to motivate them to do that. That requires --
that`s going to require diplomacy and not bombs.

HARRIS-PERRY: So when you say -- when you make that point about bombs, I feel
like that is largely lost on ordinary folks. You know, you go to war, you bomb
some stuff, people are like, please stop bombing, and then they, you know, sort
of give in --

JACOBS: And then a miracle happens.

HARRIS-PERRY: But that is not what we`re facing here, right? When you hear the
kind of public discourse around this, or even the statements from Ash Carter
there, all we`re doing, the kind of counterterrorism that is necessary.

NANCE: Well, in the capacity that we have right now, the president`s strategic
policy has been to contain ISIS. And the way they`ve been doing that is through,
you know, interdiction of their combat capacity on the ground. That`s bombing
tanks that were seized by the Iraqi army, artillery pieces, things like that,
only in very strategic points. Seventy-five percent of the aircraft that go out
on sorties come back without dropping their ordnance, that`s because what they
don`t have is they don`t have terminal ground attack controllers, people putting
eyes on to the target. And then a force that will move in once they`ve displaced
some sort of military obstacle in the way.

So, you can sit and bomb Raqqa all day. It`s very satisfying, you know, we want
ISIS to understand that we have the capacity to reach them. But as the colonel
said, they`re not going to surrender because of a strategic bombing campaign.
So, this task force is going to be linking up with ground force and doing
unconventional, real special operations. But until we displace and break ISIS`
line of communication.

JACOBS: Let me throw one further thing out there real quick, one of the
objectives is to make it impossible for them to fund anything because we`re
knocking out all their oil revenue. But, you know, attacks like the ones that
took place in California and -- cost like 20 grand --

HARRIS-PERRY: So, here`s what I find interesting, to connect those, we don`t
know yet whether or not ISIS and the California shooters, but there at least
seems to be some sense from the California shooters they have some sympathies
with the question of ISIS.

We are, I presume, going to bomb suburban homes in California. We are not I
presume going to bomb suburban areas in Paris. Is this just a fundamental
misunderstanding of how our kind of bombing action impacts the sentiments of
people who watch what we are doing internationally?

NANCE: I think we`ve learned a lot since 9/11 to know that, you know, and
certainly since the invasion of Iraq, which is a phenomenal mistake, that going
in and conducting these massive ground combat operations just creates
organizations like al Qaeda in Iraq which is now called ISIS. Not one of those
people existed before the day we invaded that country.

So, now, we`re dealing with guys who have carved out their own nation states of
Sunni radicals. You know, the United States needs to understand the only way to
defeat this, and I know, I`ve been a ground combatant in these wars, you can
kill a man, but you can`t kill his ideas.

And we have to go after what I call counter-ideological operations and warfare.
We must expose and destroy the ideological cultism that is anti- Islamic, that
is virulent anti-Islamic in ISIS`s ideology. They have bizarre traits. They say
there`s seven pillars of Islam, not five.

HARRIS-PERRY: Right.

NANCE: They are a cult. Until we in the Muslim world engage that to the point
where no one will deal with them, we`re going to be dropping bombs.

HARRIS-PERRY: Up next, the new report on ISIS-related arrests here in the United
States.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

OBAMA: We know that ISIL and other terrorist groups are actively encouraging
people around the world and in our country to commit terrible acts of violence,
oftentimes as lone wolf actors. And even as we work to prevent attacks, all of
us, government, law enforcement, communities, faith leaders, need to work
together to prevent people from falling victim to these hateful ideologies.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HARRIS-PERRY: That was President Obama this morning. One day after authorities
revealed that Tashfeen Malik, one of the shooters who killed 14 people in San
Bernardino, pledged allegiance to the Islamic State in the Facebook post. The
FBI is investigating the shooting as an act of terror. The agency has not made
any firm conclusions but the case underscores concerns about homegrown terror.

Since 2014, 71 individuals linked to ISIS have been charged in the U.S. for
terrorism-related activities and 56 have been arrested in 2015 alone, which is a
record number of terrorism-related arrests for any year since 9/11. That`s
according to a new study by George Washington University made public this week.
The study ISIS in America reports that those charged -- of those charged, the
average age is 26, 86 percent are male, the vast majority of those arrested are
U.S. citizens, and 27 percent were involved in plots to carry out attacks in
U.S. soil.

The FBI has stated ISIS-related investigations are active in all states but 21
states have at least one arrest within their border. The highest number of cases
in New York followed by Minnesota.

So, I read the report because I feel like that`s what you do, and you find out
that new report has told us new things and I am deeply distressed by the idea
that this would constitute social scientific evidence that we would then make,
for example, policing and counterterrorism decisions on. And you and I were
remarking in the break, Yolanda, that just looking through the images of it and
these kind of Facebook pictures and Twitter posts -- heck, you know, they look
like brothers and cousins and friends and --

PIERCE: They look like my cousin Tyrone.

So, I think that -- this is what I was going to say before the break, I think we
so desperately want things to be -- this is a bad guy and we`re the good guy. We
want it to be clear cut. We don`t want there to be shades of gray. If we
identify a group of people as the bad guys, then we can bomb them or we can wage
war.

We don`t know what to do with the messiness of all this.

HARRIS-PERRY: Yes.

PIERCE: We don`t also know what to do if conventional weapons of, quote/unquote,
"warfare" simply do not work.

HARRIS-PERRY: But I feel like we do know. I think that`s part of it. That this
moment, the San Bernardino moment, connects us and makes us think, OK, now we
are personally under attack by this thing that is ISIS. You know, Dylann Roof,
Charleston church, nine people killed. Transwomen killed in 2015, likely as a
result of their identities, 22 of them.

The number of shooting victims in Chicago this year, although not all of them
died, 2,777. The number of Sikhs killed in a temple in Oak Creek in Wisconsin,
six people, and need I point out the police in this country have shot and killed
more than 1,000 people today. And we don`t think we should go to war with any of
those people.

SARSOUR: I just want to -- Melissa, you know, terrorism or acts of terrorism or
even ISIS sympathizers, it`s not an epidemic in the Muslim community. I mean,
the fact we`re sitting here and making it sound like an every day occurrence, we
are 7 million to 10 million Muslims in this country.

HARRIS-PERRY: But 71 individuals have been arrested.

SARSOUR: Seventy-one whole individual. And the fact we have, again, distracted
from the issue. These two people or three bought legal weapons. Either they
bought them or someone else bought them. They`re buying tactical weapons. No one
thinks that`s the problem here. How did these people?

And then this idea of, like, countering violent extremism in this country
continues to be directed exactly at Muslims as if there`s no other community in
this country that engages in extremism. We`ve seen studies and studies from the
New America Foundation and others that more people have been killed by white
supremacist groups than by quote "jihadists" or whatever they want to call them.

HARRIS-PERRY: Southern Poverty Law Center is one of the few who are saying
terrorist groups in America, what they are mostly talking about is right wing
extremism.

SARSOUR: But now, it`s terrorism so we just have to go focus and be very narrow
focused. There`s no silver bullet profile to any of these. They could be
doctors, they could be Middle America, they could be poor, they could be black,
they could be converts. I mean, there is no special -- like, if this person is
like this, this is how it is.

And if we are really engaging in, quote, "unwarranted surveillance", which I
believe our government is against Muslims, how did you not catch Mr. Syed Farouk
buying tactical weapons and having all this ammunition? If that not raise a
flag, and it`s why we need gun control in this country, why we need background
checks.

But, of course, the Republicans don`t want them. But they will vote for a war
against --

HARRIS-PERRY: I`ll tell you, it`s not the Republicans don`t want, Democrats
don`t want it. This one may be bipartisan in kind of lack of action. That said,
this is something that I was bringing up earlier. When you say, OK, how did we
miss them? One of the things we know is it leads to poor law enforcement. And I
wonder if this is also true even on the international scale.

NANCE: Well, it is. Let me pitch in on that. I wrote a book 14 years ago called
"The Terrorist Recognition Handbook". I was bringing three decades at that time
of intelligence collection experience to law enforcement. And the first thing I
said, that`s known within the intelligence community, those were active
practitioners, we are color neutral. We are race and ethnic neutral,

Terrorists will identify themselves through the manifestation of their
activities, all right, and then once they cross a certain line, you`re a
terrorist. If you act in a political way and you have a political message and
you need to do that impact beyond the immediate victims, you cross and you get
the "T" word branded on to you.

Unfortunately, that hasn`t filtered into the media, and it hasn`t filtered into
law enforcement, you know, at the same level that the U.S. intelligence
community does. So, we need to understand ISIS can be anyone anywhere any time,
who claims that they`re ISIS. And the overwhelming preponderance of people who
were carrying out these acts in the United States and the West are not Muslims,
OK. Military age Muslim is almost a profile to get caught if you`re actually
going to carry out a terrorist act.

HARRIS-PERRY: I want to pause and when we come back, I want to talk a little bit
about things that make us feel like this is different, unusual, hard to
understand, when we talk about the San Bernardino shootings, and there`s one
aspect in particular I want us to dig into.

HARRIS-PERRY: I want to come back now again, this information we`re learning
about the attackers in the San Bernardino shooting. Yesterday, we heard from
lawyers representing members of Syed Farouk`s family.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MOHAMMAD ABUERSHAID, ATTORNEY FOR SYED FAROOK`S FAMILY: Would go over to the
house, they wouldn`t all be together in the room. The women would sit with the
women and the men would sit with the men. But that is very traditional way of
acting. It wasn`t anything that was different.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HARRIS-PERRY: So, I think we`re hearing a lot now and a lot of anxiety around
particularly the idea, two things, the family piece. So, the idea that one of
the attackers is a woman and that there was a 6-month-old child. And I wanted to
just come back to some of what you said in the first hour, Malcolm, that this
anxiety around -- or this sort of shock around this idea that these are family
folks who, you know, order something on Amazon and then have acted in this way.

NANCE: OK. Well, let`s take a projection here. Let`s make a leap. Let`s assume
based on the evidence that we have right now that they have -- that she has
actually radicalized. She did swear a bayat, she swore a loyalty oath to ISIS
and her husband went along with that.

Obviously, the evidence shows that, bomb factory, lots of weapons. Obviously,
she knew how to handle weapons. She had a run and gun battle with police. So, we
take that into account.

And we have to understand -- now, how is it the family don`t know anything about
that? All right. It`s quite simple. If they have radicalized, they bought into
the concept of hegira, which is this ISIS/al Qaeda/cultist belief harkening back
to the Prophet Muhammad leaving Mecca. They call this immigration where they
leave mentally or physically the land of the infidel.

And you can either stay where you are and do that, right in your backyard or
right in your bomb factory, and your family has to be isolated and cut away from
you.

So, they still could meet with their family and never let them know what`s going
on. And thinking -- well, I`m going to abandon you to this fate. But the child
is a very, very strange thing. I have never in my entire career seen one where a
child was abandoned to go do a suicide mission.

I`ve seen them use children as the bomb. I`ve seen them kill their family. We`ve
seen husband and wife teams go out as dual suicide bombers. But this very
thought they would carry out, adopt this ideology and then abandon their child
into the land of the infidels is quite strange.

HARRIS-PERRY: So, Malcolm, one of the things I find fascinating in talking to
you in this moment, as opposed to some of what we hear, and, Colonel Jack, I
want to come back to the point you made, which is this idea that, you know, we
can bomb everything but as we engage either domestically or internationally --
we`re going to have to have information. We`re going to have to be able to have
conversations across different, we`re going to have to engage diplomacy.

I keep wondering if, in fact, our best tools for generating a different safer
world is one where we actually learn multiple religious traditions, where we
actually learn multiple languages where we actually aren`t sort of -- one of the
ways to push back is to know more. So that we can engage more intelligently as
we see the things in the world.

JACOBS: Well, our intelligence sorely lacking. We can go back several decades
and realize every administration going back a long way has been complicit in
reducing our ability to get timely human intelligence from places we need to get
intelligence and then converting that into finished intelligence on which we can
act. We`re terrible at it. We`re just now playing catch up after decades and
decades of completely eliminating our capability to do so. So, we need to get
better intelligence. We need to do it very, very soon.

PIERCE: But I would say more than better intelligence, better intelligence, but
cultural, religious understanding, interfaith conversation. One of our favorite
poets, Elizabeth Alexander, what if the mightiest word is love, right? What if
the answer is not war and bombs but cultural understanding, religious
understanding, sustained conversation? What if we stopped pretending? The
Muslims are praying, what does it mean?

When almost every faith has prayer rituals, right, what would happen if we
actually did that and that`s our fine line of defense? Our education is our
first line of defense. That`s how we deploy our resources and our money.

HARRIS-PERRY: Right. So, that`s exactly -- so on the one hand, yes, this
question of intelligence. But the idea of actually becoming more intelligent
about the world we live in, because it does seem that part of what`s happening
here is we`re constantly behaving in ways that are based in ignorance and fear.

SARSOUR: Absolutely. When people look at someone like me, they think I`m an
anomaly. This is what Muslim women are. We are educated. We are mothers, but
we`re also workers. We`re the backbones of our communities.

There`s a lot of information and misconceptions. People are OK with that. It`s
acceptable. We allow media pundits. We allow presidential candidates -- I mean,
the stuff that people are saying about Muslims, if they were said about any
other faith, group, we would be up in arms as a country.

Forty percent of terror plots or alleged terror plots have been foiled by
Muslims and information from Muslim communities. The last thing we need in this
country is to push Muslims to margins of society. To then -- to actually then
fuel potential radicalization and anti-American hate, because actually that`s
what is feeds off of.

They`ll tell young Muslims in France, they don`t like you, you don`t belong
there. This is the conditions you are in, is because of the other and
otherizing. And this is what we don`t want. Our tools to combat terrorism is
unity, it`s staying together. It`s looking at me in the street and saying,
that`s my sister, she`s my American sister, I got her back, just like I know
that she got my back. And that`s not the sentiment that we are right now.

HARRIS-PERRY: Thank you to Linda Sarsour, and also thank you to Malcolm Nance,
and to Colonel Jack Jacobs, also to Yolanda Pierce.

Up next, after a hard week, we have a little bit of good news, and we`re going
to lighten it up when we come back.

HARRIS-PERRY: We know that the news of the last few weeks has been especially
tough. Every week for nearly a month, violence and brutality has dominated the
headlines, and in Nerdland, if those of you who consume the news is anything
like those of us who report on it, it might be feeling like the most.

So, we thought we would take this space for a reminder off a few things.

One, self-care is also an important part of the work, check in with your
emotional well-being. If you need a break for yourself, take it.

Two, there is actually other news going on rather than everything that has been
breaking everyday. It is not all bad.

So, here, for starters, a political miracle occurred in Washington this week.
Thursday night, Congress reached a -- check it out -- bipartisan agreement on
the $305 billion bill to fix our nation`s crumbling infrastructure. The
five-year bill is the longest period in a decade that Congress has reauthorized
federal transportation programs to fund roads, bridges, and rail lines.

And then there was this, a response that you may not have heard of the Syrian
refugee crisis in Minnesota where refugee agencies have been so flooded with
donations and offers to help that the director of one of the agencies told the
"Minnesota Star Tribune" we have four to five times the number of volunteers
inquiries and interests. It`s a wonderful problem to have.

And in Oklahoma this week, Montrel Adams, a student at a school for deaf
children tackled a problem of his own. He was the target of bullying and he
wanted to teach younger students about nonviolent conflict resolution. So he and
the four people built this, a buddy bench.

The idea is that students sit on the bench when they are sad or lonely, which
signals a classmates to join them on the bench to offer a word of encouragement
or an invitation to play and hang out.

And lastly, just for the sheer joy of it, we leave you with this -- First Lady
Michelle Obama making herself a new buddy at the national Christmas tree
lighting and reading "Twas The Night Before Christmas" to a group of children
with the help of Miss Piggy.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MICHELLE OBAMA, FIRST LADY: He sprang to his sleigh, to his team gave a whistle.
And away they all flew like the down of a thistle.

MISS PIGGY: But I heard him exclaim as he flew out of sight "Merry Christmas to
all, and to all, a good night."

OBAMA: High five, Miss Piggy. Low five.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HARRIS-PERRY: Yep, if you need to feel better, watch the FLOTUS video.

That is our show for today. Thanks to you at home for watching. I`ll see you
tomorrow morning, 10:00 a.m. Eastern.

Right now, it`s time for a preview of "WEEKENDS WITH ALEX WITH".

Hi, Alex.

THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE
UPDATED.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TRANSCRIPT: 120501cb.451

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SHOW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript

                       Copyright 2015 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              Copyright 2015 MSNBC
